SECOND HALF TO WITNESS MORE BUSINESS CLOSURES

 SECOND HALF TO WITNESS MORE BUSINESS CLOSURES 

SMEs particularly at risk, says EconThai

 [People affected by the pandemic register for unemployment
compensation at the Social Security Office. Varuth Hirunyatheb]
People affected by the pandemic register for unemployment compensation
at the Social Security Office. Varuth Hirunyatheb 
Thailand can expect another wave of business closures in the second
half of 2020 as the economic consequences of the pandemic, lockdown
and withdrawal of tourists reverberate nationwide, says the Employers'
Confederation of Thai Trade and Industry (EconThai).

The group bases its prediction on weak individual purchasing power, a
global economic slowdown dealing a blow to the export sector and the
dim prospects for the economy as outlined by the Bank of Thailand.

The government's order to suspend business activities only froze them
for a while, but these factors may force certain businesses to shut
down permanently because they cannot afford operating costs, said
EconThai vice-chairman Tanit Sorat.

The number of firms succumbing to financial ills is inconclusive, but
Mr Tanit reckons that "many businesses" will barely survive and that
small and medium-sized enterprises especially may struggle to avoid
laying off workers.

Although the government has begun easing the lockdown, with a plan to
allow further businesses, including internet cafes and bars, to
reopen, the domestic economy may not recover to a satisfactory level.

"EconThai is worried that many businesses will reopen only to face the
low purchasing power of the people," Mr Tanit said.

Those overseas are likely in a similar situation. Thailand's economic
growth or contraction will depend on what happens on a global scale,
according to EconThai.

The Commerce Ministry on Wednesday acknowledged for the first time
that the country's exports could shrink by more than 5% for the full
year after a 22.5% year-on-year plunge in May.

Mr Tanit urged the government to closely monitor the economy in the
post-pandemic period. He cited a forecast by the Bank of Thailand
saying the domestic economy would contract by 8.1% this year, a
significant worsening from the 5.3% seen by the Monetary Policy
Committee in March.

THAI AIRWAYS FEELS LOSS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE STATUS

 THAI AIRWAYS FEELS LOSS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE STATUS 

AoT pulls check-in counters, stands

 [Airports of Thailand takes back some of the counters and stands of
Thai Airways International to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights
out of Suvarnabhumi airport. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb)] Airports
of Thailand takes back some of the counters and stands of Thai Airways
International to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights out of
Suvarnabhumi airport. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb) 
Thai Airways International (THAI) is seeking help from authorities
after the Airports of Thailand (AoT) recalled more than 50% of the
check-in counters and aircraft stands at Suvarnabhumi airport, said
Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam.

Mr Wissanu, who heads a committee coordinating solutions to THAI's
problems, said on Thursday the airline raised the recall issue at a
recent meeting.

Airports of Thailand said it was taking back some of the counters and
stands to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights out of
Suvarnabhumi, its hub airport, after the airline resumes operations in
August after months of suspension because of the Covid-19 pandemic.

The carrier, which has a massive 244 billion baht in outstanding debt,
has filed for rehabilitation with the Central Bankruptcy Court.

Mr Wissanu said THAI has asked the panel for help as the recall of
facilities may be excessive. Prasong Poontaneat, the permanent
secretary for finance who sits on the coordinating committee, plans to
thrash out the issue with the AoT. Mr Prasong also chairs the AoT
board.

Since THAI lost its status as a state-owned enterprise (SOE)
following the sale of the Finance Ministry's stake in the airline to
below 50%, it no longer holds privileges over the use of facilities
and equipment at the airport, said Mr Wissanu.

The carrier is treated just like any other commercial airline, the
deputy prime minister added.

THAI occupies up to four rows of check-in counters at Suvarnabhumi
airport. The AoT is taking back more than half of them as the airline
looks set to reduce its capacity in light of the rehab programme,
which will necessitate shrinking its fleet and scaling back flight
destinations.

Mr Wissanu said THAI has not formally petitioned courts overseas for
debt rehab.

However, the airline has asked that courts in countries where its
creditors are based to recognise its impending debt rehab in Thailand.

This is to prevent creditors impounding THAI's assets, including
aircraft in foreign countries.

The AoT is also seeking the return of parts of the parking stands
allocated to THAI and space in the concourses.

Acting THAI president Chakkrit Parapuntakul said the lockdown easing
opens up a lifeline for the airline industry worldwide which has been
battered by the coronavirus pandemic.

THAI said it has prepared its ground staff and equipment to be
deployed in a comprehensive working plan under "new normal"
regulations and practices at airports.

ENERGY SPENDING SPED UP

 ENERGY SPENDING SPED UP 

B230bn allotted for several projects

 [Corn waste is turned into fuel for electricity at the Mae Cham pilot
project, part of Energy for All.  Yuthana Praiwan] Corn waste is
turned into fuel for electricity at the Mae Cham pilot project, part
of Energy for All.  Yuthana Praiwan 
Energy policymakers are accelerating budget spending worth 230 billion
baht through development projects, hoping to inject huge investment
into the staggering economy during the rest of the year.

Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, who met Energy Ministry
officials on Thursday, said Thailand needs investment to stimulate the
economy in the post-pandemic era, starting in the second half of 2020.

The government is allocating 200 billion baht of its investment budget
to two key state enterprises, the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (Egat) and national oil and gas firm PTT Plc, for a range of
projects. These include grid modernisation and connectivity,
development of liquefied natural gas receiving terminals, the fifth
phase of the gas pipeline and the decommissioning of gas production
rigs in the Gulf of Thailand.

A further 30 billion baht will be used to support the Energy for All
scheme, which encourages communities to co-invest with the private
sector on renewable energy-based power plants to produce 100 megawatts
of electricity.

The budget is the second allocation from the ministry's financial
package set up to relieve the viral impact. An earlier subsidy lowered
monthly power bills from March to May to help those struggling with
living costs during the lockdown and work-from-home period.

In total, the government spent 40.5 billion baht through the
Provincial Electricity Authority and the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority.

The subsidy has ended and is not being extended, said Energy Minister
Sontirat Sontijirawong.

He looks forward to using Energy for All to extend further help to
rural people, who will be encouraged to earn money by selling
agricultural waste as fuel for electricity production.

The scheme is expected to be approved by the cabinet next Tuesday,
kicking off a process to select investors by the Energy Regulatory
Commission, the minister said.

The first licence for power plant operation is scheduled for August.

"We hope this project will create jobs for at least 10,000 people and
generate over 2 billion baht in revenue," Mr Sontirat said.

In another development, Egat announced on Thursday it would embark on
energy technology businesses by forming a joint venture with two
subsidiaries to set up a new company, Innovation Holding Co.

The firm is made up of 40% investment from Egat, 30% from Ratch Group
Plc and another 30% from Electricity Generating Plc.

Kulit Sombatsiri, Egat chairman and energy permanent secretary, said
the new businesses will cover a new trade platform for electricity
from renewable sources, energy storage systems, electric vehicles and
digital solutions.

CENTRAL, AWS SET UP STARTUP LAB

[image]
Central Tech, the e-retail technology arm under Central Group, is
partnering with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to establish the Central
Tech Retail Lab to support startups with ideas that can be
incorporated into Central Group's operations, offering incubation,
training, consulting and eventually commercial partnerships.

Startups can submit their proposals to Central Tech via their website
and those chosen by the company will receive varying levels of support
based on how mature the startup is and how promising the technology.

An innovation committee comprising Central Group management will
decide which projects to bring to market through a proof of concept
showcase.

"We are looking for really new ideas that can help us grow our
business, drive productivity within the organisation and maybe
optimise the way we deal with business partners," said Axel Winter,
chief technology officer at Central Group.

"Each project should be about 4-8 weeks so we can see if there is a
benefit, and if we see the value we are prepared to take the next
step."

Early-stage startups can receive training and consulting, while
later-stage ones can be taken to market and showcased at Central
stores.

Those that prove to be valuable to startup groups can partner with
Central and be incorporated in the corporation's operations, he said.

Multiple innovation projects have already been developed through
Central Tech's innovation team.

"Top Box" is a project to develop the first "innovation supermarket"
in Thailand, which uses electronic price labels, QR codes and app
payment services, with no need for a check-out queue.

The lab also developed a smart temperature scanner to prevent future
Covid-19 outbreaks, which was first implemented at Tops supermarkets,
owned by Central Group.

Cypto Coin is another startup partnered with Central Group that offers
a reward programme for Central employees, providing discounts at
stores near its offices.

Kowin Kulruchakorn, chief of innovation at Central Tech, said the
Central Tech Retail Lab will engage with startups and the local tech
community to identify new breakthrough ideas.

"We can use the innovations from startup partners to test their ideas
with Central Group business and add value to their products," Mr Kowin
said.

Chawapol Jariyawiroj, Thai country manager of AWS, the cloud computing
service under Amazon Group, said the company will provide startups
with low cost, easy-to-use infrastructure needed to scale and grow
businesses.

Startups can access the resources they need to get started on AWS
through credit, training and support.

Those selected by the retail lab will receive US$10,000 in credit
towards AWS services, along with technical coaching on how to
transform their ideas into viable businesses.

"We hope Thailand will have a unicorn startup to drive its economic
engine," Mr Chawapol said.

"Thai startups are very lean with limited resources that make them
more efficient. Post-Covid, investors and startups will focus more on
profits and losses rather than scaling for growth. However, this opens
up new opportunities for businesses to transform, in particular by
hyper-personalising user experiences."

BUBBLE TOURISM WEARS FLAK

 BUBBLE TOURISM WEARS FLAK 

Thais must let down guard to spur growth

 [The number of air passengers is relatively small at Don Mueang
airport in Bangkok this month as air travel remains restricted.
(Photo: Pattarapong Chatpattarasill)] The number of air passengers is
relatively small at Don Mueang airport in Bangkok this month as air
travel remains restricted. (Photo: Pattarapong Chatpattarasill) 
Thailand may have to allow new infections to occur in the kingdom if
it wants the economy to get back on track, a health official said on
Thursday.

Supakit Sirilak, deputy permanent secretary for public health, said
the kingdom has gone 31 days without recording new local
transmissions. He said the country may have to let its guard down
while effectively managing new infections if the economy is to
recover.

Dr Supakit, who heads a Public Health Ministry committee assigned to
evaluate the Covid-19 situation, said the committee is preparing
proposals on how to reopen the tourism industry, particularly travel
bubbles to help the economy move forward.

The proposals will be forwarded to the Centre for Covid-19 Situation
Administration (CCSA) for consideration during a Monday meeting. He
did not provide more details.

"Thailand has gone 31 days without new local infections, but efforts
to keep new cases at zero for long periods will have a high price for
us to pay," Dr Supakit said. "We would have economic and social losses
that we have to accept."

"However, if we allow too many infections, they will overwhelm our
health care system, and this will also have an adverse impact on the
economy," he said. "Therefore, we must strike a balance -- allowing
some new infections to happen at a manageable level so the economy can
move forward."

The government has come up with a plan to open travel bubbles with
several countries, a move crucial to restoring international links to
boost the economy.

Japan and China are among the countries which the government has
targeted for travel bubbles as the nation is in dire need of the
return of foreign tourists.

Of all foreign travellers before the outbreak, Chinese nationals
accounted for the majority (27.6%), with 28.1% of tourism revenue
coming from them.

However, Dr Supakit said the travel bubble arrangements must be
regulated, including restrictions on free travel. Country, activity
and personal risks must be taken into account, he said.

Travellers should come from areas and territories deemed free of the
disease before arriving in Thailand. While in the kingdom, the
travellers should also stay at pre-approved accommodation.

"If the circumstances change, and countries with travel bubble
pairings with Thailand have new surges of infections, terms of
agreements may also change," said Dr Supakit.

Thira Woratanarat, a health expert at Chulalongkorn University's
faculty of medicine, posted on Facebook on Thursday, warning against
allowing the return of medical and wellness tourism.

Dr Thira said the losses would far outweigh the gains the kingdom
could receive from the plan, given the severity of the global pandemic
which continues unabated, with new surges of infections in several
countries.

Somsak Roongsita, secretary-general of the National Security Council,
on Thursday said travel bubbles will not happen any time soon.

Preparations may take up to two months before tourists from countries
with travel bubble pacts with Thailand will be allowed in, he added.

Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam said on Thursday
the Japan External Trade Organisation (Jetro) has informed him that
thousands of Japanese businessmen want to come on business trips to
Thailand.

Mr Wissanu said the guidelines for allowing their return will be
discussed at the CCSA Monday meeting.

He also said Jetro wants Thailand to increase the number of
alternative quarantine facilities from an estimated 900 to more than
1,000 to accommodate the incoming Japanese businessmen.

The deputy premier said the government is ready to arrange more
quarantine facilities if necessary.

The CCSA on Thursday reported one new coronavirus case detected in a
Thai national returning from abroad, taking the country to 31 days
without a local transmission.



