CORONAVIRUS: HOW CROWDFUNDING HELPED A LIVE MUSIC VENUE SURVIVE HONG
KONG'S SHUTDOWN | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

Running an independent live music and arts venue in Hong Kong is a
challenging endeavour at the best of times, but doing so amid the
Covid-19 pandemic borders on the impossible. And yet, despite a
mandatory closure, social distancing restrictions, a ban on live
performances, and no government funding, The Aftermath is refusing to
let the fat lady sing just yet.
[Alicia Beale The Aftermath]_">_[Alicia Beale The Aftermath]Alicia
Beale, owner of The Aftermath. Photo: Paul Kay. 
Alicia Beale opened The Aftermath on Wyndham Street with business
partner Kyle Haynes in October 2018 to provide a space for aspiring
bands and musicians to meet and perform in front of like-minded
audiences. Described by Beale as a “mom and pop business”, they
have since branched out to host comedy, cabaret and other arts events,
building a small but loyal and steadily growing following along the
way.

With coronavirus cases in Hong Kong rising dramatically in the second
half of March, and a cluster emerging in nearby Lan Kwai Fong, Beale
and Haynes decided to close The Aftermath temporarily from March 22.
This meant postponing several events, including the well-publicised
Affordable Tattoo Artfair, which was due to take place on March 26.
“That was a very big decision, but it just felt like the right one
in terms of everyone’s safety and health,” says Beale. The choice
over when to reopen, however, was taken out of their hands when the
government announced the mandatory closure of all bars, pubs and clubs
for two weeks from April 3 – a ban that was later extended to five
weeks. This was, says Beale, “A massive, massive blow”.

With no income, and uncertainty over when the government would allow
them to reopen, Beale and Haynes had to let their only full-time staff
member go. Their landlord, meanwhile, was initially reluctant to offer
a rebate, but they eventually secured a “minor rent reduction” for
three months that Beale says was “extremely hard-fought”.
[social distancing Lan Kwai Fong bars]_">_[social distancing Lan Kwai
Fong bars]All quiet in Lan Kwai Fong when bars shut down during the
coronavirus pandemic. Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. 
This still left a sizable shortfall, so to enhance their chances of
survival they launched a crowdfunding campaign among The Aftermath
community. Under the scheme, anyone who bought vouchers during the
closure period would get 20 per cent extra credit free to spend at the
bar once the venue reopened. For example, a HK$500 voucher equalled
HK$600 in “Aftermath Cash.”

“It was more successful than I thought,” says Beale. “Seeing how
much so many people loved The Aftermath got us through this dark
period, not just financially, but also purposefully. At some points we
weren’t sure if we’d ever reopen, but to have that kind of support
behind us really helped, people messaging all the time saying ‘we
love the place, please don’t close!’ Some people even said they
didn’t want the extra credit, and to take it as a donation. Once
people begin to worry about losing something, they really feel how
much it means to have it.”

Despite the government giving the green light for bars and
entertainment venues to reopen on May 8, things have remained
challenging for The Aftermath. Live performances and dancing are still
banned, and social distancing restrictions remain in place. What is
usually a free-standing area in front of the stage has been filled
with small tables spaced 1.5 metres apart, and the performance
schedule has been limited to DJs, stand-up comedy and quizzes.
Standard measures such as temperature checks, health declaration forms
and hand sanitising are also in place.

Nevertheless, Beale is upbeat. “A lot of our Aftermath community
have come back, and there are more who are itching to come back but
are perhaps just waiting for the right time. It’s been wonderful to
open the bar and have so many of our community come through
immediately to support us, to be here and to have a good time.”

Unfortunately for The Aftermath, which operates as a private members
club that anyone is welcome to join, the venue is not eligible for any
support from the government under the Anti-epidemic Fund. “The
government is a very tricky beast,” says Beale, “and that can be
challenging when you’re a grassroots organisation. The arts funding,
where you can get HK$15,000 per art event cancelled, only went to
government-funded organisations or organisers. So, if you did anything
through the government or the Jockey Club, then you could apply and
possibly get this funding. But if you did it on your own or at
grassroots level, there was no funding.”
[lan kwai fong coronavirus virus covid (1)]_">_[lan kwai fong
coronavirus virus covid (1)]File Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
From Beale’s perspective, this is an area where there is significant
room for improvement. “I think in general the government could do
more to support arts at grassroots level – independent artists and
organisers and curators outside of just the Jockey Club and the Arts
Development Council, she says. “In terms of funding, the best
support for The Aftermath would be to fund grassroots artists who in
turn could use the money for doing shows in our space.”

Without such support, Beale believes the longer-term implications of
the pandemic on the independent music and arts community could be
dire. “I think the biggest impact is not so much the restrictions,
but how hollowed out the businesses have been. The more people
who’ve been out of work and realise their industry can’t support
them during this kind of time, I think a lot of people are going to
start going where they’re guaranteed a salary. We are going to have
a drain in the arts community. In the music industry you have tour
agents or managers who are sitting out of work not making any money,
and they need to pay their bills, so they’re going to look for other
work. People who are dreaming of becoming full-time musicians and even
small part-time gigs – people who play in hotels, session musicians
– all their work is gone. I think that’s going to be the greatest
impact.”
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 


HONG KONG DISNEYLAND TO REOPEN AFTER FIVE-MONTH VIRUS CLOSURE | HONG
KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

Hong Kong’s Disneyland will reopen its doors on Thursday following
nearly five months of closure, the park said Monday, in a fresh boost
for a city that has largely managed to defeat the coronavirus.

Visitors will need to sign health declarations, submit to regular
temperature checks and wear masks at all times unless eating, the park
said in a statement on Monday.
[Hong Kong Disneyland_02 (Copy)]_">_[Hong Kong Disneyland_02
(Copy)]Photo: Hong Kong Disneyland.
It is just the second Disneyland around the world to resume services
during the pandemic after Shanghai turned its lights and rides back on
last month.

Tokyo and Paris remain closed while the company’s flagship park in
California is eyeing a July reopening.

Hong Kong was one of the first places to record coronavirus infections
after the disease first emerged in central China, morphing into a
global pandemic and enveloping much of the world in a recession.

But the finance hub has since managed to largely halt local
transmission with just over 1,100 infections and four deaths.

All overseas passengers are screened at the airport and quarantined by
authorities if found to be infected — on top of a mandatory 14-day
home quarantine for arrivals.
[Hong Kong Disneyland_07 (Copy)]_">_[Hong Kong Disneyland_07
(Copy)]Photo: Hong Kong Disneyland.
Across the globe, tourism operators are desperate to restart business,
trialling different forms of social distancing as lockdowns ease.

Last month, a group of Japanese amusement parks announced guidelines
on how to operate safely under the threat of the virus, including
asking guests to “refrain from vocalising loudly” on
rollercoasters and other rides.

Park staff, including those dressed up as stuffed animal mascots and
superheroes, were also advised to not shake hands or high-five with
young fans.

Hong Kong authorities currently ban gatherings of more than eight
people because of the virus. That ban is up for renewal on Thursday,
the day Disneyland reopens.
[Hong Kong Disneyland_01 (Copy)]_">_[Hong Kong Disneyland_01
(Copy)]Photo: Hong Kong Disneyland.
David Hui, a leading infectious disease expert in the city, told RTHK
radio on Monday that the anti-virus ban could be further relaxed as
most activities in the city have resumed.

Authorities have also used the public gathering ban as a way to refuse
permission for pro-democracy protests which have bubbled up again in
recent weeks and been quickly dispersed by riot police citing the
emergency measures.

Last year, the city was rocked by seven straight months of huge and
often violent pro-democracy demonstrations and Beijing has since vowed
to impose a new sweeping national security law on the business hub.
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 

CORONAVIRUS: HOW DOES A TOUR COMPANY SURVIVE WHEN HONG KONG HAS NO
TOURISTS? | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

Covid-19 has affected a wide variety of businesses in Hong Kong. But
with visitor arrivals to the city down by 96.4 per cent, 98.6 per cent
and 99.9 per cent in February, March and April, respectively,
industries that rely on a steady stream of tourists have undoubtedly
been among the hardest hit.

“The coronavirus has devastated the tourism industry,” said Laura
Blackhall, founder of Hello! Hong Kong, a tour company that has been
operating locally since January 2014 but which, she said, has
generated zero income since January.
[Coronavirus virus mask people]_">_[Coronavirus virus mask
people]Photo: GovHK. 
“At the end of January, our guests started cancelling their trips to
Hong Kong in light of health concerns. One week later we had
absolutely no bookings left in our schedule for February,” she
added.

“When the US went into lockdown, we had an onslaught of
cancellations for all future bookings. To be very honest, we were
already running 50 per cent down on bookings following many months of
protests, so it didn’t take long to completely clear us out.”

As is typical in the industry, Hello! Hong Kong’s seven tour guides
work on a freelance basis, so when there are no bookings, they don’t
get paid.

“When you work as a tour guide in Hong Kong, and most other
countries, you are actually working as freelance staff,” said
Blackhall. “Even if you are employed by a company and receive MPF,
you are still typically paid per tour that you lead. But right now,
when there are no tours, it means that tour guides have absolutely no
income.”
[Laura Blackhall Hello! Hong Kong]_">_[Laura Blackhall Hello! Hong
Kong]Laura Blackhall. Photo: Paul Kay.
When the tours first dried up, Blackhall offered her guides
interest-free loans from her own savings to bridge the shortfall, but
with no end to the tourism slump in sight, this has proved
unsustainable.

Under the government’s Travel Agents and Practitioners Support
Scheme, freelance accredited tourist guides are entitled to a subsidy
of HK$5,000 per month for six months, with the first payments
scheduled for July. But as Blackhall points out, “That’s an
awfully long time to have had to go without any income. And, as we all
know, HK$5,000 does not go very far in Hong Kong.”

Citing wage support schemes of up to 80 per cent being paid by
governments elsewhere in the world, Blackhall said she believes the
Hong Kong government could be doing more to help workers survive
financially.

She also sees opportunities for the government to stimulate the local
economy and encourage domestic tourism by subsidising prices.

“If the government could launch a subsidy scheme where it would, for
example, cover half of the cost of local experiences, whether they be
meals in restaurants, visits to paid attractions or to participate in
tours like ours, then everyone would win. Businesses like mine could
get their cash flow kick-started again, which will help us to cover
staff wages, and people will be able to have some fun and enjoy some
great activities again, which they otherwise might not be able to
afford,” she said.
[Mong Kok pedestrian zone tourist]_">_[Mong Kok pedestrian zone
tourist]File photo: Catherine Lai/HKFP.
Indeed, as soon as Hong Kong relaxed its social distancing rules to
allow gatherings of up to eight people, Blackhall already began
tailoring her business towards domestic tourism, designing three new
tours aimed specifically at Hong Kong residents.

“These tours are different from our normal offering to overseas
visitors. They go much deeper into Hong Kong’s history and provide
more detailed cultural insights,” she said. “We have partnered
with local businesses for these tours to help support other small
firms that have also been struggling through this crisis.”

Even when the tourists start to return, however, Blackhall
acknowledges that her industry will inevitably have to adapt to the
needs of the post-coronavirus world – something that could benefit
smaller tour companies like Hello! Hong Kong.

“I think in a post-Covid-19 world there will be more demand for
[small group and private tours] and a move away from the larger coach
tour-type experience,” she said. “I actually think that we are
well-positioned in the market for the return of tourism.”
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 


'THEY WANT TO COSY UP': HSBC UNDER FIRE IN UK FOR BACKING BEIJING'S
SECURITY LAW FOR HONG KONG | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

_BY JEAN-BAPTISTE OUBRIER_

Asia-focused banking giant HSBC’s vocal support for China’s
controversial Hong Kong security law has not been well received in
Britain, the former ruler of the city.

The London-headquartered lender last week backed Beijing’s
contentious legal proposal for Hong Kong, which critics fear will be
used to stamp out dissent in the city.
 [January 1 hsbc]_">_[January 1 hsbc]Graffiti in Hong Kong. Photo:
Holmes Chan/HKFP.
HSBC’s announcement angered business and political circles in
Britain, which returned the former colony to Chinese rule in 1997.

The bank’s decision flew in the face of convention because most
multinationals attempt to steer clear of political intervention.

However, HSBC’s top Asia executive, Peter Wong, has signed a
petition in support of the law.

In addition, London-listed bank Standard Chartered — which also
focuses primarily on Asia — sided with Beijing over the law.

‘COSY UP’

“The UK-listed banks have taken China’s side as it is clear they
want to cosy up to the second largest economy in the world,” said
CMC Markets analyst David Madden.
[hsbc bank]_">_[hsbc bank]File photo: In-Media via CC 2.0.
HSBC insisted the Chinese measures would help “stabilise” Hong
Kong and “revitalise” its economy.

HSBC’s move came after Hong Kong’s pro-Beijing former leader
Leung Chun-ying criticised the bank for not publicly supporting the
law — while profiting from its Chinese business interests. 

Asia remains critical for HSBC because the bank generates the majority
of its profits in the region.

The lender’s chief executive Noel Quinn announced plans this year to
axe 35,000 jobs as HSBC strengthens its focus on Asia and trims fat
from less profitable activities in Europe and the United States.

‘SYNONYMOUS WITH HONG KONG‘

HSBC — or the Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation — is
closely linked to the history of the former British colony.
[January 1 hsbc]_">_[January 1 hsbc]Vandalism in Hong Kong. Photo:
Holmes Chan/HKFP.
The bank was founded in Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865 — but has
been based in Britain since 1993.

“HSBC is synonymous with Hong Kong – the website and bank cards
feature the skyline, the HSBC building in Hong Kong is an iconic
one, and the firm employs around 30,000 people in Hong Kong,” said
Emma Wall, head of investment analysis at broker Hargreaves Lansdown.

“To those outside of the region it may therefore come as a surprise
that HSBC, and other firms such as Standard Chartered, have put up no
resistance to the recent divisive bill.

“But ultimately, any corporate decision will be made with future
revenues in mind — and for HSBC half of their revenues come from
Asia,” she added.

But the bank’s decision has been met with anger from prominent
politicians in Britain.

Former Conservative Party leader Iain Duncan Smith said HSBC’s
support for China’s national security law was a “grave error”.

Lisa Nandy and Anneliese Dodds, leading lawmakers in the main
opposition Labour party, have meanwhile written to both banks to
express concern.

Last week’s decision also risks HSBC’s reputation on the global
stage.

US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo criticised the bank for backing the
law, calling it a “cautionary tale” and warning of businesses’
overreliance on Beijing.

“That show of fealty seems to have earned HSBC little respect in
Beijing, which continues to use the bank’s business in China as
political leverage against London,” Pompeo said in a statement.
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 


HONG KONG'S CATHAY PACIFIC UNVEILS GOV'T-LED HK$39 BILLION BAILOUT
PLAN | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

_BY JEROME TAYLOR_

Troubled Hong Kong airline Cathay Pacific announced a HK$39 billion
($5 billion) government-led bailout plan on Tuesday as it battles a
crippling downturn caused by the coronavirus.

Like many carriers hammered by the crisis, the company has seen
passenger numbers evaporate in recent months, leaving most of its
fleet sitting on the tarmac and the firm haemorrhaging cash.
 [Cathay Pacific.]_">_[Cathay Pacific.]Cathay Pacific. File photo: Max
Pixel.
The airline was already under pressure after taking a hit from months
of sometimes violent protests in Hong Kong last year that saw tourism
battered.

On Tuesday the carrier announced a sweeping proposal to inject
liquidity and keep it afloat with the help of Hong Kong’s
government, which will take a small stake in the firm.

“Quite frankly, without this plan the alternative would have been a
collapse of the company,” Cathay chairman Patrick Healy told
reporters. 

The bulk of the capital will come from new shares issued to Aviation
2020, a company owned by the government, as well as a HK$7.8 billion
bridge loan also from the government.

Under the proposal, Cathay will raise about HK$11.7 billion in a
rights issue on the basis of seven rights shares for every 11 existing
shares held, while preference shares will be sold to the government
for HK$19.5 billion and warrants for HK$1.95 billion, subject to
adjustment.

Share trading in Cathay Pacific — and its two biggest shareholders
Air China and Swire — was suspended in Hong Kong on Tuesday
morning ahead of the announcement. They will resume trading on
Wednesday, Cathay said.
[hong kong international airport quarantine order
coronavirus]_">_[hong kong international airport quarantine order
coronavirus]A number of flights cancelled at Hong Kong International
Airport. Photo: Rachel Wong/HKFP.
Swire, a Hong Kong and British conglomerate with colonial-era roots,
has a 45 percent stake in Cathay while Air China owns 30 percent.

Once the recapitalisation plan is complete, Aviation 2020 will take a
six percent stake, while Swire’s shares will be reduced to 42
percent and Air China’s to 28 percent. 

Aviation 2020 will also be allowed to send two “observers” to
attend board meetings.

INVESTMENT TEMPORARY

The South China Morning Post newspaper reported it is the first time
Hong Kong’s government has directly injected money into a private
company.

Finance Secretary Paul Chan said the government acted to protect Hong
Kong’s status as an international transport hub after Cathay
approached them for help. 

“We expect the investment to last three or more years as we at least
need to wait for the pandemic to pass,” he told reporters, adding he
expected a reasonable return for taxpayers.
[Paul Chan]_">_[Paul Chan]Paul Chan. File Photo: inmediahk.net via CC
2.0.
“The government will not take part in the company’s daily
operations,” he said, with the two observer board members having no
voting rights. 

Cathay said it executives had also agreed to pay cuts, while all staff
would be asked to take three weeks unpaid leave over the next six
months — a second time they have been asked to do so. 

Before the pandemic struck, Cathay was one of Asia’s largest
international airlines and the fifth largest air cargo carrier
globally.

The virus has caused a collapse in passenger numbers, and while its
cargo business has kept going, Cathay has no domestic demand to fall
back on — unlike many other big airlines. 

Healy said Cathay went into the year with some $20 billion in
reserves, but the company was now burning through $2.5-3 billion a
month. 

Cathay also found itself punished by Beijing last year when some of
its 33,000 employees expressed support for Hong Kong’s pro-democracy
protests.

The crisis led to the replacement of both the airline’s CEO and
chairman as Cathay scrambled to placate Beijing, while unions
complained some staff were sacked for their political views.

Many other major airlines have scrambled to secure loans, raise
capital or seek bailouts in recent weeks including Singapore Airlines,
Korean Air, the three big US airlines and Lufthansa.
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 