‘CRISIS LIKE NO OTHER’ WILL SHRINK INDONESIA’S ECONOMY, IMF
FORECASTS

[image]
Indonesia’s economy is on track for a significant contraction this
year as the coronavirus crisis has hit the global economy more
severely than previously expected, the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) has forecast.

The United States-based institution projects that Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy will contract by 0.3 percent this year, according to
the June update of the World Economic Outlook titled A Crisis Like No
Other, An Uncertain Recovery, which was published on Wednesday. The
global economy, meanwhile, is expected to shrink by 4.9 percent.

“The COVID-19 pandemic has had a more negative impact on activity in
the first half of 2020 than anticipated, and the recovery is projected
to be more gradual than previously forecast,” the IMF said,
highlighting a reversal of progress on poverty reduction and job
creation.

“In countries with high shares of informal employment, lockdowns
have led to joblessness and abrupt income losses for many of those
workers,” the report reads. “The adverse impact on low-income
households is acute, imperiling the significant progress made in
reducing extreme poverty in the world.”

Read also: IMF forecasts economic carnage as virus cases surge in
Americas

More than 3.06 million Indonesians have either been laid-off or
furloughed as of May 27, according to Manpower Ministry data. The
government expects that 5.5 million of the country’s workforce,
dominated by those working in the informal sector, will lose their
jobs this year following slowing economic activity.

The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted businesses and factories as people
are forced to stay at home to contain the coronavirus spread.
Indonesia’s economic growth cooled to 2.97 percent in the first
quarter as household spending and investment plunged.

Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati has projected that the economy
will contract by more than 3 percent year-on-year in the second
quarter. She expects full-year growth of 1 percent under the baseline
scenario but a full-year contraction of 0.4 percent under the
worst-case scenario.

On Wednesday, the IMF also trimmed Indonesia’s economic growth
forecast for next year to 6.1 percent, down from its earlier
projection of 8.2 percent, as the path to recovery remains uncertain.

The global economy, meanwhile, would plunged into the deepest
recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s, as household
spending weakened, while investment subdued, the fund projected.

“The projections of weaker private consumption reflect a combination
of a large adverse aggregate demand shock from social distancing and
lockdowns, as well as a rise in precautionary savings,” it reads.
“Moreover, investment is expected to be subdued as firms defer
capital expenditures amid high uncertainty.”

Read also: Clouds thicken over Indonesia’s economic growth as
uncertainties persist

Uncertainty surrounding the global economy, including the trajectory
of the virus and vaccine trials, are key factors shaping the outlook,
the report goes on to say.

“The downturn could be less severe than forecast if economic
normalization proceeds faster than currently expected in areas that
have reopened,” it reads, while adding that downside risks, such as
future outbreaks, remain significant.

Policymakers, the IMF suggests, should consider strengthening fiscal
stimulus measures to respond to deteriorating economic conditions.

“Temporary targeted cash transfers to low-income households that
kick in when the unemployment rate or jobless claims rise above a
certain threshold—can be highly effective in dampening downturns.”

The Indonesian government has allocated Rp 695.2 trillion (US$ 49.3
billion) worth of COVID-19 spending to boost economic growth and
strengthen healthcare systems amid the pandemic.

The IMF’s gloomy projection adds to an already long list of
weakening expectations for the Indonesian economy made by other
international institutions.

The World Bank has projected 0 percent growth for Indonesia this year
as the global economy is expected to see its deepest downturn since
World War II.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
expect the Indonesian economy to shrink 2.8 percent this year even if
the government manages to avoid a second wave of infections. If it is
hit by a second wave, however, the economy could witness a 3.9 percent
contraction.

Read also: GDP to contract by 3.1% in Q2 on COVID-19 headwinds

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) projected Indonesia’s gross
domestic product (GDP) to shrink 1 percent this year, which would be
the weakest performance since the 1998 Asian financial crisis.

Meanwhile, international rating agency Moody’s Investor Service
expected Indonesia’s economy to shrink by 0.8 percent this year,
followed by a strong rebound of 6.1 percent in 2021.

“We continue to expect a gradual recovery beginning in the second
half of the year, but that outcome will depend on whether governments
can reopen their economies while also safeguarding public health,”
Moody’s said in its Global Macro Outlook 2020-21 June Update.

Moody’s expects the G20 economies to contract by 4.6 percent this
year, followed by 5.2 percent growth next year.


PHARMA COMPANIES SHOULD FOCUS ON MULTIVITAMINS: ASSOCIATION

[image]
Pharmaceutical companies might have to switch the focus of their
production to dietary supplements such as multivitamins during the
pandemic to cater to increasing consumer demand, an
industry association has stated.

Indonesian Pharmaceutical Association (GP Farmasi) chairman Tirto
Kusnadi told _The Jakarta Post _on Wednesday that companies should
capitalize on increasing demand for multivitamins as sales of other
pharmaceutical products had declined during the health crisis.

“People are scrambling for multivitamins to maintain their immune
system, so companies that produce vitamins have seen their sales
double,” he said in a phone interview.

Publicly listed pharmaceutical companies, such as Indofarma and Kalbe
Farma, have reported an increase in multivitamin sales since the
pandemic. Kalbe Farma recorded a 6.9 percent year-on-year (yoy) jump
in net sales of its consumer health products, which include vitamins,
in the first quarter this year to Rp 996 billion (US$70.1 million),
higher than the sales growth of prescription pharmaceutical products
at 5.3 percent.

Tirto said that demand for generic drugs, frequently prescribed for
patients under the Health Care and Social Security Agency (BPJS
Kesehatan) program, had dropped by around 25 percent since the
outbreak of the virus as fear of contagion is discouraging people from
visiting hospitals.

“People are afraid of contracting COVID-19 at a hospital, so they
have been avoiding [hospitals] since the pandemic started. Therefore,
pharmaceutical companies must align their product portfolios with this
behavioural change,” he said.

Hospital occupancy in Indonesia had fallen to between 20 and 50
percent as COVID-19 continues to spread across the country, the Health
Ministry’s director for referral health services, Tri Hesty
Widyastoeti Marwotosoeko, said in early May.

Hospitals have also suspended some nonemergency procedures, especially
dentistry, elective surgery and ear, nose and throat (ENT) services
since April, consequently pushing down demand for various types of
medicines.

Furthermore, Tirto said, pharmaceutical companies should prepare
themselves for the post-pandemic era by manufacturing drugs for
diseases that are projected to grow in the future, such as
cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.

Meanwhile, the Indonesian Food and Drug Monitoring Agency (BPOM) has
announced that it has deregulated the drug certification process to
expedite the pre-manufacturing process of pharmaceutical products,
including health supplements.

The BPOM’s drug registration director, Lucia Rizka Andalucia, said
on Tuesday that the agency had simplified the certification process
for pharmaceutical products that are being developed to combat the
spread of COVID-19.

“We’re simplifying and deregulating our certification process
without reducing our standards for products that are used against
COVID-19, such as hand sanitizer, health supplements and medicines,”
she said during an online webinar held by marketing consulting firm
Markplus.

Lucia claimed that the processing time to obtain the good medicine
manufacturing practices certification (CPOB) had been cut to seven
working days from previously 35 working days.

Meanwhile, the licensing process for good cosmetics manufacturing
practices (CPKB) certification, which is needed to produce hand gels
and sanitizers, was slashed to two working days from 20 working days.

“We also provide assistance during the development of vaccines and
drugs and could possibly provide regulatory relaxation and waivers
based on our risk assessment of the products,” she said.

INDONESIA LOOKS TO SIGN RCEP THIS YEAR TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC RECOVERY

[image]
Indonesia and 14 other negotiating countries agreed Tuesday to sign
the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) this year to
help their economies recover from the pandemic-induced downturn.

Iman Pambagyo, who has led the RCEP trade negotiating committee since
2013, said he expected the deal to be signed in November. Countries
have so far agreed on the text of the agreement and almost completed
the legal review of the text, called legal scrubbing.

If signed, the trade deal, introduced at the ASEAN Summit in Cambodia
in 2012, will create one of the world’s largest economic blocs, as
the negotiating countries account for 30 percent of global GDP.

“With respect to the COVID-19 pandemic, the finalization of the RCEP
this year gives hope that economies in the region and around the world
will recover, the regional supply chain will be strengthened and
confidence in the open and rules-based international trade system will
be restored,” Trade Minister Agus Suparmanto said in a statement on
Tuesday after a virtual meeting with his regional counterparts.

Read also: Indonesia responds to India, China's latest spat, calls for
restraint amid pandemic

The meeting came at a time when countries, including Indonesia, are
struggling to reemerge from various degrees of lockdown as they seek
to ease the severity of the pandemic's impacts on their economies. The
Indonesian government forecasts an economic growth rate of 1 percent
this year, the lowest rate in 19 years, and has even warned of a 0.4
percent contraction under a worst case scenario.

The pandemic has also battered international trade and disrupted
global supply chains, with factories around the world being forced to
close as countries seek to contain the virus.

The World Trade Organization (WTO) has projected that global trade
will shrink by between 13 and 32 percent this year as the scale of the
economic impacts remain uncertain.

Despite Indonesia’s optimism, ministers from the other negotiating
countries, namely the 10 ASEAN member states, China, Japan, South
Korea, Australia and New Zealand, still need to persuade India to join
the RCEP to get the most out of the trade deal.

“India, as an original participating country, has a strategic role
in the progress, prosperity and supply chain of the region,” said
Agus, a National Awakening Party politician. “Thus, we remain open
to India rejoining the RCEP in the future.”

Read also: RI wants to resolve issues in RCEP negotiations

India withdrew from negotiations in November 2019 because of concerns
about its growing trade deficit with China. Indian businesspeople have
expressed concern the RCEP could result in an influx of cheap goods
from China and dairy products from Australia.

The situation worsened recently after the Indian army said at least
20 of its soldiers had been killed in clashes with Chinese troops at a
disputed border site between the two countries earlier this month.

India and China are important economic partners for Indonesia. Indian
government data reveals that Indonesia has emerged as its
second-largest trading partner in the ASEAN region.

Indonesia-India bilateral trade increased from US$4.3 billion
from 2005 to 2006 to $21 billion in from 2018 to 2019. The trade
value stood at $5.42 billion during the January to May period this
year, Statistics Indonesia (BPS) data show.

India is the second-largest buyer of Indonesian coal and crude palm
oil.

Meanwhile, China is Indonesia’s largest trading partner, with $25.38
billion in bilateral trade recorded during this year’s first five
months.


GOOGLE LAUNCHES FIRST CLOUD REGION IN INDONESIA

[image]
Google Cloud announced the opening of its new Jakarta region on
Wednesday, bringing services closer to its Indonesian and Southeast
Asian consumers.

The company’s Indonesia country director, Megawaty Khie, said the
Jakarta region would allow businesses to comply with national
regulations and ease recovery options for consumers.

“We chose Jakarta as the next region because Indonesia has one of
the highest gross domestic product growth [rates] in the region and is
home to many of Asia’s unicorns,” she said in an online press
conference, referring to large start-ups.

Indonesia’s digital economy is well on track to dominate Southeast
Asia as its market value is projected to triple to US$130 billion by
2025 from $40 billion in 2019, according to the latest “e-Conomy
Southeast Asia” study.

The newly launched cloud platform marks the first Google region in the
country and the ninth in the Asia Pacific. In total, Google Cloud has
24 regions with 73 zones in 17 countries around the globe.

Google first announced the plan to open Google Cloud in Indonesia
during its Cloud Summit in 2018. It plans to launch two cloud regions
Asia Pacific, namely in Delhi and Melbourne in the coming years.

Google Cloud Platform offers cloud computing services, data
analytics, machine learning and security and management tools for
businesses.

Several companies in the country utilize Google Cloud services,
including e-payment solution GoPay and telecommunication company XL
Axiata.

“Having Google Cloud available in the region means that we can
comply with regional regulations and requirements. This also means
that latency and traffic can be more manageable,” said XL
Axiata chief information and digital officer Yessie Yosetya.

Meanwhile, GoPay CEO Aldi Haryopratomo said the company utilized cloud
computing to manage, analyze and capture data quickly for making
data-driven decisions.

According to a 2019 study by Boston Consulting Group BCG commissioned
by Google Cloud, companies that use public cloud services could add
around $36 billion to Indonesia’s GDP between 2019 and 2023. They
could also create around 350,000 jobs across different industries.

To help the country capture the potential, Google Cloud Indonesia
plans to roll out 150,000 training labs in Indonesia this year to
enable cloud computing training and certification for Indonesians.

“Going into digital transformation era, Indonesia will see higher
demand for digital talent, so we created this program along with other
initiatives,” Megawaty said, adding that Google was also partnering
with the Information and Communications Ministry in the latter’s
Digital Talent Scholarship program.  

Indonesia is currently home to two data centers from Alibaba Cloud and
Google. Meanwhile, Amazon’s cloud subsidiary Amazon Web Services
revealed that it would build a data center in 2022.


GOLD SHINES AS CORONAVIRUS SURGE UNNERVES INVESTORS

[image]
Gold prices surged to their highest in nearly eight years on
Wednesday, while global shares cooled as signs of an acceleration in
coronavirus cases kept investors on edge.

Fuelling concerns about sustained weakness in the pace of the economic
recovery was data showing several US states seeing record infections
and the death toll in Latin America passing 100,000, according to a
Reuters tally.

The European Union is even prepared to bar US travellers because of
the surge of cases in the country, putting it in the same category as
Brazil and Russia, the New York Times reported.

All that and softness in the dollar, along with endless cheap
liquidity from central banks, helped spot gold gain 0.2% to $1,770.92
per ounce after touching $1,773, its highest level since October 2012
in early Asian trade.

Global stocks were 0.3% lower and have been moving sideways in recent
weeks after rising more than 40% from March lows on hopes the worst of
the pandemic was over.

European shares were 1% lower.

There was some good news in markets, with emerging market stocks
climbing to a 3-1/2 month high. They were up 0.5% on the day, while
MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan added 0.5%
to reach its highest since pandemic lockdowns first cratered markets
in early March.

E-Mini futures for the S&P 500 reversed early losses to gain 0.1%.

"Global equity market futures are struggling to make gains today,
likely for no other reason than with rising daily Covid-19 cases in
the US remaining front-page news, the headlines are proving to be a
weighty burden to bear this morning," said Stephen Innes, chief global
market strategist at AxiCorp. "The trough in global growth is indeed
behind us, but the recovery trajectory in H2 remains uncertain."

Against a backdrop of concerns over a weaker US dollar and that a jump
in infections will lead to more stimulus measures, gold should remain
on a reasonably constructive path, he said.

The euro, headed for its best month against the dollar since October,
inched higher to $1.1303.

The dollar was just a touch negative against a basket of currencies,
just above a one-week low hit Tuesday.

"The dollar and risk sentiment are likely to remain broadly negatively
correlated, barring the US displaying clear and enduring leadership in
the global economic recovery, something hard to square with the grim
US news on COVID," said Ray Attrill, head of FX strategy at NAB.

The New Zealand dollar eased after the country's central bank said it
might have to do yet more to stimulate the economy, including cutting
rates further, expanding bond purchases or even buying foreign assets.

Euro zone bond yields were broadly steady, with a focus on Austria
which is expected to sell a new 100-year bond that will raise 2
billion euros, one of the longest-dated bond sales since the
coronavirus crisis.

Germany will also visit the primary market with the first reopening of
a 15-year bond which is expected to raise 2.5 billion euros.

Oil futures were mixed as worries about oversupply in the market,
stoked by a rise in US crude inventories, were offset by a drop in
gasoline stocks.

Brent crude was up 0.3% at $42.75 a barrel, while US West Texas
Intermediate (WTI) crude futures fell 1 cents to $40.34 a barrel,
paring some earlier losses.