BUSINESS CALLS FOR REGULATORY CHANGES IN KOREA

		[KCCI]

KCCI

South Korean businesspeople have called for easing unfavorable
regulations that are not applied in rival countries in order to secure
the competitiveness of the nation’s major industries.
On Friday, the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry held a second
meeting of the regulatory improvement for the major industries with
the private and public sectors to listen to the regulatory
difficulties of the equipment industry and seek solutions. The meeting
was attended by industry associations and major companies in steel,
non-ferrous metals, oil refining and petrochemicals sectors.

Participants discussed easing regulations with regard to the
installation of hazardous chemical storage facilities and the flexible
application of gas emission facilities at steel mills.

According to the regulations introduced in 2015, outdoor storage
facilities of hazardous chemicals should be equipped with discharge
barriers to prevent spillage. However, if the detection warning system
installed before 2015 is strengthened with sensors or CCTV, they are
recognized as installing the discharge wall.

The businesspeople said it was unclear whether the exceptions are
still granted when the existing facility was replaced due to old age.
In response, the government agreed to review whether to apply the
exception if there were no safety concerns when replacing old
facilities.

Some also suggested that tariffs should be adjusted temporarily for
major raw materials so that they can compete in the same environment
as their international competitors. If a domestic chemical company
procures naphtha at home and abroad, it is subject to a 0.5 percent
flexible tariff. Participants said if prices of products fall through
flexible tariff adjustment, it will help small and medium-sized
processing companies.

Park Gu-yeon, co-chairman of the public-private joint regulatory
improvement promotion group, said, “We will make active efforts to
enhance regulatory innovation by listening to and resolving the lively
voices of the field on the regulatory innovation of major
companies.” 

By Shin Ji-hye (shinjh@heraldcorp.com)


HDC'S ASIANA ACQUISITION DELAYED TO H2 AMID PANDEMIC

[image]
HDC Hyundai Development Co.'s planned acquisition of Asiana Airlines
Inc. has been delayed to the second half due to the new coronavirus'
impact on the airline industry, industry sources said Friday.
In December, the HDC-Mirae Asset Daewoo consortium signed a deal to
acquire the country's second-biggest airline from Kumho Asiana Group,
with a plan to complete the acquisition by June 27.

Early this month, Asiana's main creditor Korea Development Bank (KDB)
demanded that the HDC-led consortium notify the state lender of its
intent to complete the deal by the initially scheduled date.

In response, HDC called for renegotiations with Asiana creditors over
the acquisition terms, describing the ongoing virus crisis as a "never
expected and very negative factor" that will affect its planned
acquisition of Asiana Airlines.

HDC also cited snowballing debts of the airline as another reason for
renegotiations, noting that debts are "damaging the acquisition value
of the carrier."

Asiana's debts jumped by 4.5 trillion won from July last year to March
this year, and its debt-to-equity ratio skyrocketed by 16,126 percent
during the same period.

HDC has demanded renegotiations with the KDB through written
documents, but the policy bank asked the company to hold face-to-face
talks. The two sides have yet to set the date for renegotiations.

"We once again sent a letter to HDC last week to ask the company to
have a face-to-face meeting to discuss the renegotiations. But we
haven't received any response from the company yet," a KDB spokesman
said over the phone.

HDC said Friday the company is "in talks with Asiana's creditors and
will continue negotiations with them to proceed with the deal."

HDC has reiterated its plan to acquire Asiana, dismissing speculation
that it may have difficulties in taking over the company due to the
economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak.

Regulators in the United States, China, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkey
and South Korea approved HDC's planned takeover of Asiana. Russia is
the only remaining country that is still reviewing the integration.

HDC and Kumho Asiana Group will have six more months to close the deal
by Dec. 27 as HDC has to receive approval from all countries to which
it flies, the KDB spokesman said.

The HDC consortium signed the deal to acquire a 30.77 percent stake in
Asiana from Kumho Industrial Co., a construction unit of Kumho Asiana
Group, as well as new Asiana shares to be issued and Asiana's six
affiliates, for 2.5 trillion won ($2.2 billion).

Asiana has suspended most of its flights on international routes as
more than 180 countries have strengthened entry restrictions amid
virus fears this year.

As a result, its net losses for the January-March quarter deepened to
683.26 billion won from 89.18 billion won a year earlier.

To help Asiana stay afloat, the country's two state lenders -- the KDB
and the Export-Import Bank of Korea -- plan to inject a combined 1.7
trillion won into Asiana. Last year, the two banks extended a total of
1.6 trillion won to the cash-strapped carrier.

In its latest self-help plans, Asiana has had all of its 10,500
employees take unpaid leave for 15 days a month since April until
business circumstances normalize. Asiana's executives have also agreed
to forgo 60 percent of their wages, though no specific time frame was
given for how long the pay cuts will remain in effect. (Yonhap)


[MONITOR] US IMPORTS OF AUTO TIRES FROM KOREA FALL 2.2%

US imports of automotive tires manufactured in South Korea fell by 2.2
percent on-year at $1.2 billion, data from Korea Trade-Investment
Promotion Agency showed.
Compared to Korea, countries like Vietnam, Thailand, Mexico and Japan
saw their exports of tires to US increase by 23 percent, 14.7 percent
and 13.6 percent on-year, respectively.

Earlier this week, the US Commerce Department announced that it has
kicked off anti-dumping investigations on imports of tires from Korea,
Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. They will also look into whether
Vietnamese tire manufacturers were receiving unfair subsidies. 

(khnews@heraldcorp.com)


[NEWS FOCUS] AFTER A YEAR OF RESTRICTED TRADE WITH JAPAN, KOREAN
MATERIALS INDUSTRY HAS GROWN STRONGER

[image]
It’s been nearly a year since Japan imposed restrictions on its
exports to South Korea of key high-tech materials used in chipmaking,
the economic pillar of Asia’s fourth-largest economy.

At the time, Korea panicked. But one year on, Korea has made
significant efforts to reduce its dependence on Japan, which is a
close neighbor but also a rival on many fronts, by diversifying its
import channels and localizing its materials technologies.

On July 1 last year, Japan abruptly moved to restrict exports of three
key materials -- photoresists, etching gas (hydrogen fluoride) and
fluorinated polyimide -- used in semiconductor and display
manufacturing.

This was viewed as retaliation for a verdict issued in 2018 by a Seoul
court, which ordered some Japanese firms to compensate Korean victims
of forced labor during the Japanese colonization of Korea.

Korea’s two biggest chipmakers, Samsung Electronics and SK hynix,
and display panel makers such as Samsung Display and LG Display, were
put on high alert as they were purchasing over 90 percent of their
photoresists and over 40 percent of their etching gas from Japan.

In response, the government and companies took swift action to
strengthen the materials industry.

SK Materials is now capable of supplying etching gas to the world’s
top two memory companies, Samsung and SK hynix, within this year.

Samsung and SK hynix have successfully tested the Korean material at
their manufacturing sites, according to industry sources.

SK Materials also aims to build an ArF photoresist plant next year.

Material developers such as Soulbrain and Ram Technology have ramped
up their development and production capabilities for hydrogen
fluoride.

The chipmakers also started to purchase etching gas from US-based
Matheson and extreme ultraviolet photoresist from Belgium-based RMQC.

The development of materials at home and the companies’ efforts to
diversify their suppliers are expected to further reduce Korea’s
reliance on Japanese imports.

According to data from the Korea International Trade Association,
Korea’s imports of etching gas from Japan slid 85.8 percent
year-on-year during the period between January and May.

Overall, imports from Japan accounted for 12 percent of the
country’s total material imports, down from 44 percent.

“Companies have been making meaningful efforts to overcome the
situation over the last year,” said an industry official.
“Materials supplies have been managed at a stable level so far, but
we can’t fully reassure as the political tension between Korea and
Japan continues.”

The Korean government has allocated 2.1 trillion won ($1.74 billion)
from this year’s budget to support the growth of the materials,
parts and equipment industries. Its goals are to secure a stable
supply of 100 key items to protect the sectors in the event of another
trade war.

By Song Su-hyun (song@heraldcorp.com)


DAELIM INDUSTRIAL SEEKS PATENT FOR NOISE-CONTROL TECH

		[(Daelim Industrial)]

(Daelim Industrial)

South Korea’s Daelim Industrial said Thursday it has applied for a
patent for its new technology that drastically reduces sound between
apartment floors.
According to the construction company, it analyzed the impact patterns
of the footsteps of adults and children to develop the new method of
topping two layers of mortar and one layer of insulation material on
top of the concrete slab, which is the basic frame of a building.

Dubbed the Noise Free 3-layer System, the extra mortar and high-level
insulation materials filter out the din, and turn out to be more
effective in reducing sound than just using a 60-millimeter insulation
material, the company said.

In Korea where apartments are more popular than individual houses, the
floor impact sound caused by adult footsteps and when children run
often triggers disputes between neighbors.

Daelim said its technology passed the performance test conducted by
Housing Environment Research and Innovation, a research center under
Korea Land & Housing Corp.

“We were able to reduce the noise between floors with a new method
that has not been tried before,” a company official said.

“We are continuing our research to reduce noise inconvenience for
residents.”

By Jo He-rim (herim@heraldcorp.com)