US STILL NATION’S LARGEST DEBTOR IN Q1: CENTRAL BANK - TAIPEI TIMES

[image]

 	*
By Crystal Hsu / Staff reporter

 	* 

The US remained Taiwan’s largest debtor nation in the first quarter
of the year, although domestic banks’ exposure to the world’s
largest economy decreased, as the COVID-19 pandemic drove local
investors to redeem foreign funds, the central bank said on Wednesday.

Taiwanese banks’ direct risk exposure to the US stood at US$84.36
billion, while ultimate risk exposure — after factoring in risk
transfers — was US$83.89 billion, down from record highs of US$89.75
billion and US$86.36 billion respectively three months earlier, the
central bank said in a report.

Despite the retreat, the US topped other debtor destinations for the
19th consecutive quarter, as earlier interest rate hikes by the US
Federal Reserve attracted global funds to US investment instruments,
the report said.

However, wild swings last quarter across global financial markets
prompted Taiwanese investors to terminate their investments in US
dollar-based mutual funds, it said.

The markets remain volatile as funds continue to seek safe havens
following aggressive rate cuts by central banks worldwide to pre-empt
credit crunches, while COVID-19 infections continue to spike in the
US, several European nations, Russia and Brazil as well as some Asian
and Middle Eastern nations.

China came in second, with Taiwanese banks’ exposure totaling
US$46.1 billion on a direct-risk basis and US$66.9 billion on an
ultimate-risk basis, the report said.

Yuan-denominated investment tools have lost their appeal amid a spate
of rate cuts and depreciation of the Chinese currency, it said.

Hong Kong placed third, with an increase in direct-risk exposure to
US$37.04 billion and ultimate-risk exposure to US$25.25 billion after
local banks wired money to their Hong Kong branches to cope with
earlier liquidity tightness, the report said.

Overall, Taiwan’s direct-risk exposure fell 3.4 percent to US$438.5
billion, while ultimate-risk exposure decreased by 2.97 percent to
US$423.2 billion, the report showed.

Advanced economies accounted for 51.05 percent of the total, followed
by developing markets at 25.85 percent, it showed.

Asian and Pacific nations made up 48 percent, while American and
Caribbean regions accounted for 29.85 percent, it added.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.

WORST IS OVER, TCFH SAYS, EYEING BETTER H2 - TAIPEI TIMES

 RESILIENT MARKET: PROPERTY PURCHASES COULD IMPROVE IN THE SECOND HALF
OF THE YEAR FOR HOME BUYERS AND COMPANIES SEEKING FACTORY SITES OR
OFFICE SPACE, THE BANK SAID 

 	*
By Crystal Hsu / Staff reporter

 	* 

State-run Taiwan Cooperative Financial Holding Co (TCFH, 合庫金控)
on Wednesday said the operating environment might start to improve in
the second half of the year as the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic this
quarter is over.

TCFH chairman Lei Chung-dar (雷仲達) made the remarks after the
company’s annual general meeting, when government-appointed
candidates secured an overwhelming majority on the company’s board,
winning 13 of 15 seats.

“The worst impact from the virus outbreak is likely over for Taiwan
and things might start to improve going forward,” said Lei, who is
also a director on the central bank board, and poised to remain at the
helm of the bank-focused conglomerate.

 [image] 
Main subsidiary Taiwan Cooperative Bank (合庫銀行), the nation’s
largest lender by number of branches, aims to increase its loan book
by 3 percent this year, aided by companies shifting production back to
Taiwan from China as well as a recovery in property deals.

The lender, one of Taiwan’s top mortgage operators, posted an 8.5
percent pickup in land financing and another 2.7 percent gain in
mortgage lending in the first quarter, compared with a year earlier.

Lei said that people who previously postponed property purchases might
start to resume buying after the virus crisis in Taiwan began to wind
down late last month.

Government data showed that the housing market from February to last
month held resilient with a low single-digit percentage decline
compared with the same period last year.

Meanwhile, demand for factory and office space is expected to gain
traction from returning companies seeking to diversify manufacturing
sites and cope with US-China trade tensions, brokers have said.

Overall, the record low interest rate would lend support to property
purchases, Lei said.

There is no need to worry about a property bubble, he said, adding
that real demand underpins housing deals these days and the central
bank has policy tools such as credit controls to curb speculation.

The boom in domestic tourism is also favorable for consumer banking,
Lei told shareholders, as all lenders have offered cash rebates or
credit bonuses to customers who use stimulus vouchers to pay for
transportation, hotels, restaurant meals, shopping or other
recreational expenses.

Shareholders at the meeting approved a proposal to distribute a cash
dividend of NT$1.15 per common share.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.



5G ADOPTION TO REACH 5 TO 20% IN FIRST YEAR: ERICSSON - TAIPEI TIMES

[image]

 	*
By Lisa Wang / Staff Reporter

 	* 

Taiwan’s 5G penetration rate is expected to reach 5 to 20 percent a
year after telecoms launch commercial services, while consumer uptake
would depend on the maturity of 5G industrial chains, Ericsson Taiwan
Ltd (台灣愛立信) said.

Taiwan is among the nations introducing the high-speed wireless
technology this year, but the availability of 5G-enabled devices,
mostly smartphones, is still limited and prices are high, Ericsson
Taiwan president Chafic Nassif told a news briefing in Taipei on
Tuesday.

That would not compare to Taiwan’s rapid uptake of 4G, which in its
first 12 months reached 20 percent penetration rate, the company said.

Nassif said he is positive about Taiwan’s migration to 5G, as more
innovative applications would be available for average consumers, and
enterprise users soon are to have more stable and secure Internet
connectivity.

Taiwan’s major telecoms are to roll out 5G service in the second
half of this year, with Chunghwa Telecom Co (中華電信) likely to
take the lead on Wednesday next week, followed by Far EasTone
Telecommunications Co (遠傳電信) two days later.

Chunghwa Telecom has said that within a year of launch, its number of
5G subscribers would reach 1 million, accounting for less than 10
percent of its total mobile subscribers.

With more 5G networks to come online later this year, the number of 5G
subscribers worldwide is forecast to hit 190 million by the end of
this year, according to the Ericsson Mobility Report released earlier
this month.

The number is to expand to 2.8 billion by 2025, up from the 2.6
billion it estimated in September last year, accounting for about 30
percent of all mobile subscriptions at that time, Ericsson forecast.

“This is mainly due to a faster uptake in China than previously
expected,” the report said.

However, the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed 5G spectrum auctions in
Europe and could lead to a slower uptake of subscriptions in the near
term, it said.

The report showed that consumers see resilient networks as vital
during the pandemic, with 83 percent of respondents saying that
information and communications technology has largely helped them cope
with lockdowns.

One-third of consumers plan to invest in 5G and better broadband
networks in preparation for a potential second wave of outbreaks, the
report said.

Still, 4G LTE would remain the dominant mobile access technology by
subscription from this year to 2025, with subscriber numbers likely to
peak in 2022 at 5.1 billion, it said.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.


TSMC EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE EARN AVERAGE NT$1.63M - TAIPEI TIMES

[image]

 	*
Staff writer, with CNA

 	* 

The median income of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC,
台積電) employees worldwide last year was NT$1.63 million
(US$54,993), while chief executive officer C.C. Wei (魏哲家) earned
180 times that amount, or about NT$293 million.

The median income figure included base salaries, allowances, cash
bonuses and profit sharing, but excluded pensions and benefits,
according to statistics released on Wednesday in TSMC’s Corporate
Social _Responsibility Report_.

Factoring in pensions and other benefits, TSMC last year paid its
global employees a total of NT$109.9 billion in compensation, the
report showed.

The median salary increased 3.2 percent from 2018, when it was NT$1.58
million, and total compensation to global employees rose 1.6 percent
from NT$108.2 billion over the same period.

TSMC employed 51,297 people at the end of last year, of which 34,137
were managers, professionals and administrative staff, and the
remaining 17,160 were production line technicians, the report said.

More than 80 percent of TSMC’s managers and professionals had a
master’s degree or higher, the report showed.

About 90 percent of TSMC employees are based in Taiwan and the rest
are based overseas.

TSMC shares on Wednesday rose 0.79 percent to close at NT$317.5 in
Taipei trading. The stock this year has declined 7.4 percent, compared
with the broader market’s 11.67 percent fall.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.


TAIPOWER RESTARTS GENERATOR DESPITE WARNINGS - TAIPEI TIMES

 	*
By Natasha Li / Staff reporter

 	* 

Taiwan Power Co (Taipower, 台電) yesterday restarted the No. 2
coal-fired generator at its Taichung Power Plant as energy consumption
across the nation hit a record high.

Citing rising temperatures as summer rolls around, Taipower said it
decided to activate the No. 2 generator to prepare for an upcoming
surge in energy consumption and help guarantee a steady supply of
electricity during exam season.

Taipower’s move provoked an outcry from the Taichung City
Government, which threatened the company with a maximum fine of NT$20
million (US$674,764) and to take it to court if it restarted the unit
without the city’s permission.

 [image] 
Photo courtesy of Taiwan Power Co

The No. 2 generator had been on standby since January due to rising
tensions between the state-run utility and the city government over
the issue of air pollution.

Environmentalists have said that the Taichung plant is one of the
world’s largest emitters of carbon dioxide.

After repeatedly fining the company, the city government last year
revoked its operating licenses for the No. 2 and No. 3 generators.

However, in February, the Environmental Protection Administration
countermanded the city government’s sanctions.

Taipower yesterday said that its generators conform to local emissions
standards, following improvements at the Taichung plant.

The company added that it would halt operations of the No. 1 generator
for annual repair and maintenance.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.