BANK OF JAPAN LIKELY TO CUT ECONOMIC FORECASTS AGAIN ON COVID-19 | THE
JAPAN TIMES

The Bank of Japan is likely to lower its economic projections again
next month as the heavy impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the
domestic and global economies becomes clearer.

The International Monetary Fund said earlier this week that it sees
the world economy shrinking 4.9 percent this year, sharply lower than
its April view, with COVID-19 seen causing a deeper global recession
and a slower-than-expected recovery.

The gloomier world view follows a lengthy state of emergency in Japan
that BOJ board members will also need to factor in to their quarterly
forecasts when they meet July 14 to 15.

A downgrade of BOJ forecasts by itself is unlikely to prompt further
easing action by the bank, though economists say the calculus could
change if markets also become more jittery and the yen suddenly
strengthens.

“The BOJ will probably cut its projections,” said Hiroshi
Miyazaki, a senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities. “That won’t mean more easing, though. Their focus now
is on funding of companies and financial markets.”

The central bank signaled at its June meeting that it intended to sit
tight and monitor the effects of its loan programs and other virus
measures worth around $1 trillion for the time being.

Still, the need to assess the further deterioration of the economy
remains as does the risk of falling back into deflation.

The IMF now sees Japan’s economy contracting more than first thought
as it takes a 5.8 percent hit in 2020 from the virus, bigger than the
blow from the global financial crisis.

The BOJ doesn’t have a calendar year forecast. Instead it projects
the economy to shrink between 3 percent and 5 percent in the fiscal
year through March 2021. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict a
contraction of 5.3 percent for the same period.

The BOJ took the unusual step of not revealing the median figure in
its range of projections in April, a decision that Gov. Haruhiko
Kuroda said reflected the high level of uncertainty over the
forecasts, in later comments to a lawmaker in the Diet.

The likely need to lower the forecasts partly stems from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s decision to extend the state of emergency
restricting activity in the nation. The emergency was finally lifted
in all parts of the country on May 25, meaning the economy was
partially shut down for almost two months.

Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect gross domestic product to
shrink an annualized 22 percent this quarter, the most in more than
six decades.

In addition to the BOJ’s loan programs and asset buying, the Abe
administration has put together ¥233.9 trillion (about $2.2 trillion)
in virus response measures. While the package has been described by
Abe as the world’s biggest stimulus package at more than 40 percent
of gross domestic product, its distribution has been relatively slow
so far.

How much the stimulus will lift the economy will likely be a key part
of BOJ discussions.

 [Coronavirus banner] 


IMF DOWNGRADES FORECAST FOR GLOBAL CONTRACTION TO 4.9% IN PANDEMIC |
THE JAPAN TIMES

Washington – The International Monetary Fund said Wednesday it
expects the global economy to decline 4.9 percent from the previous
year, raising its April estimate by 1.9 points to reflect the
worsening economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.

With the pandemic triggering the worst global recession since the
Great Depression in the 1930s, the IMF projected in an update to its
World Economic Outlook for 2020 that Japan’s economy will slump 5.8
percent, 0.6 point more than earlier forecast and sharper than in 2009
at the height of the global financial crisis.

The United States, one of the nations hardest hit by the virus first
detected in China late last year, will see its economy shrink 8.0
percent, 2.1 points more than the earlier estimate and its worst
contraction since 1946.

“The COVID-19 pandemic has had a more negative impact on activity in
the first half of 2020 than anticipated, and the recovery is projected
to be more gradual than previously forecast,” the IMF said in the
report.

First-quarter gross domestic product was generally worse than
expected, though countries like China, India and Japan were
exceptions. Economic indicators point to a more severe contraction in
the second quarter, except in China, where most of the country
reopened by early April, the IMF said.

RELATED STORIES

Growth in consumption, in particular, was downgraded for most
economies as demand shock has been triggered by social distancing
measures and lockdowns to slow the virus, as well as by a rise in
precautionary savings.

Global activity is expected to trough in the second quarter, with
growth in 2021 projected to strengthen to 5.4 percent, 0.4 point lower
than the April estimate, according to the report.

Global trade in goods and services was also revised downward by 0.9
point to a contraction of 11.9 percent, reflecting considerably weaker
demand in areas including tourism. A gradual pickup in domestic demand
is expected to push trade growth up to 8.0 percent in 2021, the IMF
said.

Japan and the United States are expected to see their economies post
growth of 2.4 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively, in 2021, but
these estimates as well were lowered from the earlier estimates.

China’s economic growth forecast was revised downward by 0.2 point
to 1.0 percent for 2020, and by 1.0 point to 8.2 percent for 2021.

The euro area was forecast this year to log a contraction of 10.2
percent, down 2.7 points from April’s report. But the outlook for
the region was upgraded by 1.3 points to 6.0 percent growth for 2021.

Based on the latest projections, the cumulative output loss for the
global economy from the pandemic will be over $12 trillion across 2020
and 2021 , the Washington-based institution said, warning that
“pervasive uncertainty,” including the length of the pandemic,
will continue to haunt its latest forecast.

 [Coronavirus banner] 


BOJ POLICYMAKERS VOICE CONCERNS OVER DEFLATION RISK | THE JAPAN TIMES

Some Bank of Japan policymakers voiced concern at a meeting last week
that the coronavirus pandemic could tip the country back into
deflation, a summary of opinions released Wednesday showed.

A return to deflation would be “a considerable obstacle” to
eventually achieving the central bank’s 2 percent price stability
target, one of the nine Policy Board members said during the June
15-16 meeting.

“Thus, considering this risk, it is necessary to conduct additional
easing at this point,” the member said.

The central bank maintained monetary policy unchanged at the meeting,
keeping short-term interest rates at minus 0.1 percent while guiding
long-term rates to around zero percent.

Another policymaker was also worried about the country’s tepid
inflation, saying, “In the conduct of economic measures, it is
necessary first of all to minimize the risk of deflation taking
hold.”

Japan’s core consumer prices fell for a second straight month in
May, down 0.2 percent from a year earlier, as the global spread of
COVID-19 lowered the cost of energy and accommodation, the Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications said Friday.

“The increasing number of bankruptcies of firms as well as
suspension and discontinuation of businesses may have a negative
impact on employment, prices and finance,” one policymaker said,
adding “it is necessary to be vigilant so that the economy will not
fall into deflation again.”

As for the economic outlook, one member of the board said, “It seems
inevitable that the negative impact on the global economy, including
Japan, will become prolonged without effective vaccines and
medicines.”

Demand is expected to be pushed down by deterioration in the labor
market and “a new lifestyle” that could negatively impact
conventional services because of concerns about the risk of COVID-19,
another said.

At the latest meeting, the BOJ decided to expand its ¥75 trillion
($700 billion) corporate support measures to ¥110 trillion, in line
with the government’s second extra budget to bolster the country’s
economy including new programs focusing on assistance for small
businesses.

The summary of opinions is compiled by Gov. Haruhiko Kuroda and does
not attribute comments to individual speakers.

 [Coronavirus banner] 


JAPAN SEEKS CLOSURE IN POST-BREXIT U.K. TRADE TALKS BY END OF JULY |
THE JAPAN TIMES

Japan is aiming to conclude its current trade negotiations with the
U.K. by the end of next month, according to a Japanese government
official familiar with the talks.

While the time frame sounds very short for a trade negotiation, the
two sides aren’t starting from scratch because they already have an
economic partnership agreement, the official said.

Hiroshi Matsuura, Tokyo’s chief negotiator in the talks, earlier
told the Financial Times that his nation was giving the U.K. six weeks
to strike a post-Brexit trade deal so both sides needed to limit their
ambitions.

Japan wants to close the deal early as it will need time to check each
detail before it can be sent to the Diet for approval, according to
the government official. The Diet is expected to start an extra
session this autumn.

Securing trade deals is a top priority for the U.K. as it emerges into
a post-Brexit world. Without a new accord, the two countries will
default to trading on World Trade Organization terms.

RELATED STORIES

Japan is the U.K.’s fourth-largest non-EU trading partner. The U.K.
was Japan’s 15th largest trading partner last year.

 [Coronavirus banner] 

JAPAN SEEKS CLOSURE IN POST-BREXIT U.K. TRADE TALKS BY END OF JULY |
THE JAPAN TIMES

Japan is aiming to conclude its current trade negotiations with the
U.K. by the end of next month, according to a Japanese government
official familiar with the talks.

While the time frame sounds very short for a trade negotiation, the
two sides aren’t starting from scratch because they already have an
economic partnership agreement, the official said.

Hiroshi Matsuura, Tokyo’s chief negotiator in the talks, earlier
told the Financial Times that his nation was giving the U.K. six weeks
to strike a post-Brexit trade deal so both sides needed to limit their
ambitions.

Japan wants to close the deal early as it will need time to check each
detail before it can be sent to the Diet for approval, according to
the government official. The Diet is expected to start an extra
session this autumn.

Securing trade deals is a top priority for the U.K. as it emerges into
a post-Brexit world. Without a new accord, the two countries will
default to trading on World Trade Organization terms.

RELATED STORIES

Japan is the U.K.’s fourth-largest non-EU trading partner. The U.K.
was Japan’s 15th largest trading partner last year.

 [Coronavirus banner] 