CORONAVIRUS: HOW CROWDFUNDING HELPED A LIVE MUSIC VENUE SURVIVE HONG
KONG'S SHUTDOWN | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

Running an independent live music and arts venue in Hong Kong is a
challenging endeavour at the best of times, but doing so amid the
Covid-19 pandemic borders on the impossible. And yet, despite a
mandatory closure, social distancing restrictions, a ban on live
performances, and no government funding, The Aftermath is refusing to
let the fat lady sing just yet.
[Alicia Beale The Aftermath]_">_[Alicia Beale The Aftermath]Alicia
Beale, owner of The Aftermath. Photo: Paul Kay. 
Alicia Beale opened The Aftermath on Wyndham Street with business
partner Kyle Haynes in October 2018 to provide a space for aspiring
bands and musicians to meet and perform in front of like-minded
audiences. Described by Beale as a “mom and pop business”, they
have since branched out to host comedy, cabaret and other arts events,
building a small but loyal and steadily growing following along the
way.

With coronavirus cases in Hong Kong rising dramatically in the second
half of March, and a cluster emerging in nearby Lan Kwai Fong, Beale
and Haynes decided to close The Aftermath temporarily from March 22.
This meant postponing several events, including the well-publicised
Affordable Tattoo Artfair, which was due to take place on March 26.
“That was a very big decision, but it just felt like the right one
in terms of everyone’s safety and health,” says Beale. The choice
over when to reopen, however, was taken out of their hands when the
government announced the mandatory closure of all bars, pubs and clubs
for two weeks from April 3 – a ban that was later extended to five
weeks. This was, says Beale, “A massive, massive blow”.

With no income, and uncertainty over when the government would allow
them to reopen, Beale and Haynes had to let their only full-time staff
member go. Their landlord, meanwhile, was initially reluctant to offer
a rebate, but they eventually secured a “minor rent reduction” for
three months that Beale says was “extremely hard-fought”.
[social distancing Lan Kwai Fong bars]_">_[social distancing Lan Kwai
Fong bars]All quiet in Lan Kwai Fong when bars shut down during the
coronavirus pandemic. Photo: Benjamin Yuen/United Social Press. 
This still left a sizable shortfall, so to enhance their chances of
survival they launched a crowdfunding campaign among The Aftermath
community. Under the scheme, anyone who bought vouchers during the
closure period would get 20 per cent extra credit free to spend at the
bar once the venue reopened. For example, a HK$500 voucher equalled
HK$600 in “Aftermath Cash.”

“It was more successful than I thought,” says Beale. “Seeing how
much so many people loved The Aftermath got us through this dark
period, not just financially, but also purposefully. At some points we
weren’t sure if we’d ever reopen, but to have that kind of support
behind us really helped, people messaging all the time saying ‘we
love the place, please don’t close!’ Some people even said they
didn’t want the extra credit, and to take it as a donation. Once
people begin to worry about losing something, they really feel how
much it means to have it.”

Despite the government giving the green light for bars and
entertainment venues to reopen on May 8, things have remained
challenging for The Aftermath. Live performances and dancing are still
banned, and social distancing restrictions remain in place. What is
usually a free-standing area in front of the stage has been filled
with small tables spaced 1.5 metres apart, and the performance
schedule has been limited to DJs, stand-up comedy and quizzes.
Standard measures such as temperature checks, health declaration forms
and hand sanitising are also in place.

Nevertheless, Beale is upbeat. “A lot of our Aftermath community
have come back, and there are more who are itching to come back but
are perhaps just waiting for the right time. It’s been wonderful to
open the bar and have so many of our community come through
immediately to support us, to be here and to have a good time.”

Unfortunately for The Aftermath, which operates as a private members
club that anyone is welcome to join, the venue is not eligible for any
support from the government under the Anti-epidemic Fund. “The
government is a very tricky beast,” says Beale, “and that can be
challenging when you’re a grassroots organisation. The arts funding,
where you can get HK$15,000 per art event cancelled, only went to
government-funded organisations or organisers. So, if you did anything
through the government or the Jockey Club, then you could apply and
possibly get this funding. But if you did it on your own or at
grassroots level, there was no funding.”
[lan kwai fong coronavirus virus covid (1)]_">_[lan kwai fong
coronavirus virus covid (1)]File Photo: Tom Grundy/HKFP.
From Beale’s perspective, this is an area where there is significant
room for improvement. “I think in general the government could do
more to support arts at grassroots level – independent artists and
organisers and curators outside of just the Jockey Club and the Arts
Development Council, she says. “In terms of funding, the best
support for The Aftermath would be to fund grassroots artists who in
turn could use the money for doing shows in our space.”

Without such support, Beale believes the longer-term implications of
the pandemic on the independent music and arts community could be
dire. “I think the biggest impact is not so much the restrictions,
but how hollowed out the businesses have been. The more people
who’ve been out of work and realise their industry can’t support
them during this kind of time, I think a lot of people are going to
start going where they’re guaranteed a salary. We are going to have
a drain in the arts community. In the music industry you have tour
agents or managers who are sitting out of work not making any money,
and they need to pay their bills, so they’re going to look for other
work. People who are dreaming of becoming full-time musicians and even
small part-time gigs – people who play in hotels, session musicians
– all their work is gone. I think that’s going to be the greatest
impact.”
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 