CORONAVIRUS: HOW DOES A TOUR COMPANY SURVIVE WHEN HONG KONG HAS NO
TOURISTS? | HONG KONG FREE PRESS HKFP

Covid-19 has affected a wide variety of businesses in Hong Kong. But
with visitor arrivals to the city down by 96.4 per cent, 98.6 per cent
and 99.9 per cent in February, March and April, respectively,
industries that rely on a steady stream of tourists have undoubtedly
been among the hardest hit.

“The coronavirus has devastated the tourism industry,” said Laura
Blackhall, founder of Hello! Hong Kong, a tour company that has been
operating locally since January 2014 but which, she said, has
generated zero income since January.
[Coronavirus virus mask people]_">_[Coronavirus virus mask
people]Photo: GovHK. 
“At the end of January, our guests started cancelling their trips to
Hong Kong in light of health concerns. One week later we had
absolutely no bookings left in our schedule for February,” she
added.

“When the US went into lockdown, we had an onslaught of
cancellations for all future bookings. To be very honest, we were
already running 50 per cent down on bookings following many months of
protests, so it didn’t take long to completely clear us out.”

As is typical in the industry, Hello! Hong Kong’s seven tour guides
work on a freelance basis, so when there are no bookings, they don’t
get paid.

“When you work as a tour guide in Hong Kong, and most other
countries, you are actually working as freelance staff,” said
Blackhall. “Even if you are employed by a company and receive MPF,
you are still typically paid per tour that you lead. But right now,
when there are no tours, it means that tour guides have absolutely no
income.”
[Laura Blackhall Hello! Hong Kong]_">_[Laura Blackhall Hello! Hong
Kong]Laura Blackhall. Photo: Paul Kay.
When the tours first dried up, Blackhall offered her guides
interest-free loans from her own savings to bridge the shortfall, but
with no end to the tourism slump in sight, this has proved
unsustainable.

Under the government’s Travel Agents and Practitioners Support
Scheme, freelance accredited tourist guides are entitled to a subsidy
of HK$5,000 per month for six months, with the first payments
scheduled for July. But as Blackhall points out, “That’s an
awfully long time to have had to go without any income. And, as we all
know, HK$5,000 does not go very far in Hong Kong.”

Citing wage support schemes of up to 80 per cent being paid by
governments elsewhere in the world, Blackhall said she believes the
Hong Kong government could be doing more to help workers survive
financially.

She also sees opportunities for the government to stimulate the local
economy and encourage domestic tourism by subsidising prices.

“If the government could launch a subsidy scheme where it would, for
example, cover half of the cost of local experiences, whether they be
meals in restaurants, visits to paid attractions or to participate in
tours like ours, then everyone would win. Businesses like mine could
get their cash flow kick-started again, which will help us to cover
staff wages, and people will be able to have some fun and enjoy some
great activities again, which they otherwise might not be able to
afford,” she said.
[Mong Kok pedestrian zone tourist]_">_[Mong Kok pedestrian zone
tourist]File photo: Catherine Lai/HKFP.
Indeed, as soon as Hong Kong relaxed its social distancing rules to
allow gatherings of up to eight people, Blackhall already began
tailoring her business towards domestic tourism, designing three new
tours aimed specifically at Hong Kong residents.

“These tours are different from our normal offering to overseas
visitors. They go much deeper into Hong Kong’s history and provide
more detailed cultural insights,” she said. “We have partnered
with local businesses for these tours to help support other small
firms that have also been struggling through this crisis.”

Even when the tourists start to return, however, Blackhall
acknowledges that her industry will inevitably have to adapt to the
needs of the post-coronavirus world – something that could benefit
smaller tour companies like Hello! Hong Kong.

“I think in a post-Covid-19 world there will be more demand for
[small group and private tours] and a move away from the larger coach
tour-type experience,” she said. “I actually think that we are
well-positioned in the market for the return of tourism.”
 [newsletter hkfp]_">_[newsletter hkfp] 