LAWMAKERS OFFER HELP TO JAPANESE BANKS BATTLING FINTECH FIRMS | THE
JAPAN TIMES

The ruling-party lawmakers are looking to make it easier for banks to
expand into different industries, a step that could help traditional
lenders push back against tech rivals.

The Liberal Democratic Party’s financial policy research panel wants
to amend the banking law next year to relax limits on lenders’ lines
of business as well as their investments in nonfinancial firms. The
proposal, released last week, didn’t specify which areas banks might
be allowed to enter.

Japan’s government has been trying to improve financial services by
giving tech firms and other outsiders a bigger role in the industry.
Now some politicians see a need to boost lenders, which have been
suffering from years of rock-bottom interest rates and are busy
supporting businesses and households hurt by the coronavirus-fueled
recession.

“We are no longer in an era where we need to straitjacket banks with
regulation,” Seiji Kihara, deputy chairman of the LDP’s Policy
Research Council who is leading the proposal, said in an interview.
“You can’t support regional economies only through fintech.”

Money transfers are one area where Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
administration has eased restrictions for tech companies that are
getting into finance. Another is open banking, which allows fintech
startups to tap bank customers’ information with their consent to
run things like personal finance apps.

Banks argue that the deregulation should work both ways. “While
keeping with the spirit of regulation, it’s important to secure an
equal footing among players,” Japanese Bankers Association Chairman
Kanetsugu Mike said at a briefing on June 18.

One business outside of finance where banks might make money is
advertising. Lenders could charge advertisers to target online banking
customers based on their transaction information, much like tech
companies do on their platforms, according to Jefferies analyst
Hideyasu Ban.

In Singapore, some banks have gone into e-commerce after authorities
there eased restrictions on stakes they can take in nonfinancial
businesses.

The LDP lawmakers also want to relax limits on lenders’ stakes in
companies outside of the industry. The current law allows bank holding
companies and their units to own no more than 15 percent of
nonfinancial firms.

At the same time, the panel may also seek to tighten rules for
companies that want to get into banking, said Kihara, who sits in the
Lower House.

Tech companies Sony Corp. and Rakuten Inc. and convenience store
operator Lawson Inc. are among large Japanese firms that have received
banking licenses, and Kihara pointed to the possibility of global
giants including Facebook Inc. and Apple Inc. eventually doing the
same.

The LDP aims to include the panel’s proposals in its growth strategy
and then have the government incorporate them in its annual policy
framework to be released as soon as next month. If they are included,
a bill will probably be submitted to the Diet next year.

 [Coronavirus banner] 