BANK OF JAPAN LIKELY TO CUT ECONOMIC FORECASTS AGAIN ON COVID-19 | THE
JAPAN TIMES

The Bank of Japan is likely to lower its economic projections again
next month as the heavy impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the
domestic and global economies becomes clearer.

The International Monetary Fund said earlier this week that it sees
the world economy shrinking 4.9 percent this year, sharply lower than
its April view, with COVID-19 seen causing a deeper global recession
and a slower-than-expected recovery.

The gloomier world view follows a lengthy state of emergency in Japan
that BOJ board members will also need to factor in to their quarterly
forecasts when they meet July 14 to 15.

A downgrade of BOJ forecasts by itself is unlikely to prompt further
easing action by the bank, though economists say the calculus could
change if markets also become more jittery and the yen suddenly
strengthens.

“The BOJ will probably cut its projections,” said Hiroshi
Miyazaki, a senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities. “That won’t mean more easing, though. Their focus now
is on funding of companies and financial markets.”

The central bank signaled at its June meeting that it intended to sit
tight and monitor the effects of its loan programs and other virus
measures worth around $1 trillion for the time being.

Still, the need to assess the further deterioration of the economy
remains as does the risk of falling back into deflation.

The IMF now sees Japan’s economy contracting more than first thought
as it takes a 5.8 percent hit in 2020 from the virus, bigger than the
blow from the global financial crisis.

The BOJ doesn’t have a calendar year forecast. Instead it projects
the economy to shrink between 3 percent and 5 percent in the fiscal
year through March 2021. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict a
contraction of 5.3 percent for the same period.

The BOJ took the unusual step of not revealing the median figure in
its range of projections in April, a decision that Gov. Haruhiko
Kuroda said reflected the high level of uncertainty over the
forecasts, in later comments to a lawmaker in the Diet.

The likely need to lower the forecasts partly stems from Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s decision to extend the state of emergency
restricting activity in the nation. The emergency was finally lifted
in all parts of the country on May 25, meaning the economy was
partially shut down for almost two months.

Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect gross domestic product to
shrink an annualized 22 percent this quarter, the most in more than
six decades.

In addition to the BOJ’s loan programs and asset buying, the Abe
administration has put together ¥233.9 trillion (about $2.2 trillion)
in virus response measures. While the package has been described by
Abe as the world’s biggest stimulus package at more than 40 percent
of gross domestic product, its distribution has been relatively slow
so far.

How much the stimulus will lift the economy will likely be a key part
of BOJ discussions.

 [Coronavirus banner] 