BUSINESS CALLS FOR REGULATORY CHANGES IN KOREA

		[KCCI]

KCCI

South Korean businesspeople have called for easing unfavorable
regulations that are not applied in rival countries in order to secure
the competitiveness of the nation’s major industries.
On Friday, the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry held a second
meeting of the regulatory improvement for the major industries with
the private and public sectors to listen to the regulatory
difficulties of the equipment industry and seek solutions. The meeting
was attended by industry associations and major companies in steel,
non-ferrous metals, oil refining and petrochemicals sectors.

Participants discussed easing regulations with regard to the
installation of hazardous chemical storage facilities and the flexible
application of gas emission facilities at steel mills.

According to the regulations introduced in 2015, outdoor storage
facilities of hazardous chemicals should be equipped with discharge
barriers to prevent spillage. However, if the detection warning system
installed before 2015 is strengthened with sensors or CCTV, they are
recognized as installing the discharge wall.

The businesspeople said it was unclear whether the exceptions are
still granted when the existing facility was replaced due to old age.
In response, the government agreed to review whether to apply the
exception if there were no safety concerns when replacing old
facilities.

Some also suggested that tariffs should be adjusted temporarily for
major raw materials so that they can compete in the same environment
as their international competitors. If a domestic chemical company
procures naphtha at home and abroad, it is subject to a 0.5 percent
flexible tariff. Participants said if prices of products fall through
flexible tariff adjustment, it will help small and medium-sized
processing companies.

Park Gu-yeon, co-chairman of the public-private joint regulatory
improvement promotion group, said, “We will make active efforts to
enhance regulatory innovation by listening to and resolving the lively
voices of the field on the regulatory innovation of major
companies.” 

By Shin Ji-hye (shinjh@heraldcorp.com)