PHARMA COMPANIES SHOULD FOCUS ON MULTIVITAMINS: ASSOCIATION

[image]
Pharmaceutical companies might have to switch the focus of their
production to dietary supplements such as multivitamins during the
pandemic to cater to increasing consumer demand, an
industry association has stated.

Indonesian Pharmaceutical Association (GP Farmasi) chairman Tirto
Kusnadi told _The Jakarta Post _on Wednesday that companies should
capitalize on increasing demand for multivitamins as sales of other
pharmaceutical products had declined during the health crisis.

“People are scrambling for multivitamins to maintain their immune
system, so companies that produce vitamins have seen their sales
double,” he said in a phone interview.

Publicly listed pharmaceutical companies, such as Indofarma and Kalbe
Farma, have reported an increase in multivitamin sales since the
pandemic. Kalbe Farma recorded a 6.9 percent year-on-year (yoy) jump
in net sales of its consumer health products, which include vitamins,
in the first quarter this year to Rp 996 billion (US$70.1 million),
higher than the sales growth of prescription pharmaceutical products
at 5.3 percent.

Tirto said that demand for generic drugs, frequently prescribed for
patients under the Health Care and Social Security Agency (BPJS
Kesehatan) program, had dropped by around 25 percent since the
outbreak of the virus as fear of contagion is discouraging people from
visiting hospitals.

“People are afraid of contracting COVID-19 at a hospital, so they
have been avoiding [hospitals] since the pandemic started. Therefore,
pharmaceutical companies must align their product portfolios with this
behavioural change,” he said.

Hospital occupancy in Indonesia had fallen to between 20 and 50
percent as COVID-19 continues to spread across the country, the Health
Ministry’s director for referral health services, Tri Hesty
Widyastoeti Marwotosoeko, said in early May.

Hospitals have also suspended some nonemergency procedures, especially
dentistry, elective surgery and ear, nose and throat (ENT) services
since April, consequently pushing down demand for various types of
medicines.

Furthermore, Tirto said, pharmaceutical companies should prepare
themselves for the post-pandemic era by manufacturing drugs for
diseases that are projected to grow in the future, such as
cardiovascular diseases and diabetes.

Meanwhile, the Indonesian Food and Drug Monitoring Agency (BPOM) has
announced that it has deregulated the drug certification process to
expedite the pre-manufacturing process of pharmaceutical products,
including health supplements.

The BPOM’s drug registration director, Lucia Rizka Andalucia, said
on Tuesday that the agency had simplified the certification process
for pharmaceutical products that are being developed to combat the
spread of COVID-19.

“We’re simplifying and deregulating our certification process
without reducing our standards for products that are used against
COVID-19, such as hand sanitizer, health supplements and medicines,”
she said during an online webinar held by marketing consulting firm
Markplus.

Lucia claimed that the processing time to obtain the good medicine
manufacturing practices certification (CPOB) had been cut to seven
working days from previously 35 working days.

Meanwhile, the licensing process for good cosmetics manufacturing
practices (CPKB) certification, which is needed to produce hand gels
and sanitizers, was slashed to two working days from 20 working days.

“We also provide assistance during the development of vaccines and
drugs and could possibly provide regulatory relaxation and waivers
based on our risk assessment of the products,” she said.