GOOGLE LAUNCHES FIRST CLOUD REGION IN INDONESIA

[image]
Google Cloud announced the opening of its new Jakarta region on
Wednesday, bringing services closer to its Indonesian and Southeast
Asian consumers.

The company’s Indonesia country director, Megawaty Khie, said the
Jakarta region would allow businesses to comply with national
regulations and ease recovery options for consumers.

“We chose Jakarta as the next region because Indonesia has one of
the highest gross domestic product growth [rates] in the region and is
home to many of Asia’s unicorns,” she said in an online press
conference, referring to large start-ups.

Indonesia’s digital economy is well on track to dominate Southeast
Asia as its market value is projected to triple to US$130 billion by
2025 from $40 billion in 2019, according to the latest “e-Conomy
Southeast Asia” study.

The newly launched cloud platform marks the first Google region in the
country and the ninth in the Asia Pacific. In total, Google Cloud has
24 regions with 73 zones in 17 countries around the globe.

Google first announced the plan to open Google Cloud in Indonesia
during its Cloud Summit in 2018. It plans to launch two cloud regions
Asia Pacific, namely in Delhi and Melbourne in the coming years.

Google Cloud Platform offers cloud computing services, data
analytics, machine learning and security and management tools for
businesses.

Several companies in the country utilize Google Cloud services,
including e-payment solution GoPay and telecommunication company XL
Axiata.

“Having Google Cloud available in the region means that we can
comply with regional regulations and requirements. This also means
that latency and traffic can be more manageable,” said XL
Axiata chief information and digital officer Yessie Yosetya.

Meanwhile, GoPay CEO Aldi Haryopratomo said the company utilized cloud
computing to manage, analyze and capture data quickly for making
data-driven decisions.

According to a 2019 study by Boston Consulting Group BCG commissioned
by Google Cloud, companies that use public cloud services could add
around $36 billion to Indonesia’s GDP between 2019 and 2023. They
could also create around 350,000 jobs across different industries.

To help the country capture the potential, Google Cloud Indonesia
plans to roll out 150,000 training labs in Indonesia this year to
enable cloud computing training and certification for Indonesians.

“Going into digital transformation era, Indonesia will see higher
demand for digital talent, so we created this program along with other
initiatives,” Megawaty said, adding that Google was also partnering
with the Information and Communications Ministry in the latter’s
Digital Talent Scholarship program.  

Indonesia is currently home to two data centers from Alibaba Cloud and
Google. Meanwhile, Amazon’s cloud subsidiary Amazon Web Services
revealed that it would build a data center in 2022.