‘CRISIS LIKE NO OTHER’ WILL SHRINK INDONESIA’S ECONOMY, IMF
FORECASTS

[image]
Indonesia’s economy is on track for a significant contraction this
year as the coronavirus crisis has hit the global economy more
severely than previously expected, the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) has forecast.

The United States-based institution projects that Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy will contract by 0.3 percent this year, according to
the June update of the World Economic Outlook titled A Crisis Like No
Other, An Uncertain Recovery, which was published on Wednesday. The
global economy, meanwhile, is expected to shrink by 4.9 percent.

“The COVID-19 pandemic has had a more negative impact on activity in
the first half of 2020 than anticipated, and the recovery is projected
to be more gradual than previously forecast,” the IMF said,
highlighting a reversal of progress on poverty reduction and job
creation.

“In countries with high shares of informal employment, lockdowns
have led to joblessness and abrupt income losses for many of those
workers,” the report reads. “The adverse impact on low-income
households is acute, imperiling the significant progress made in
reducing extreme poverty in the world.”

Read also: IMF forecasts economic carnage as virus cases surge in
Americas

More than 3.06 million Indonesians have either been laid-off or
furloughed as of May 27, according to Manpower Ministry data. The
government expects that 5.5 million of the country’s workforce,
dominated by those working in the informal sector, will lose their
jobs this year following slowing economic activity.

The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted businesses and factories as people
are forced to stay at home to contain the coronavirus spread.
Indonesia’s economic growth cooled to 2.97 percent in the first
quarter as household spending and investment plunged.

Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati has projected that the economy
will contract by more than 3 percent year-on-year in the second
quarter. She expects full-year growth of 1 percent under the baseline
scenario but a full-year contraction of 0.4 percent under the
worst-case scenario.

On Wednesday, the IMF also trimmed Indonesia’s economic growth
forecast for next year to 6.1 percent, down from its earlier
projection of 8.2 percent, as the path to recovery remains uncertain.

The global economy, meanwhile, would plunged into the deepest
recession since the Great Depression of the 1930s, as household
spending weakened, while investment subdued, the fund projected.

“The projections of weaker private consumption reflect a combination
of a large adverse aggregate demand shock from social distancing and
lockdowns, as well as a rise in precautionary savings,” it reads.
“Moreover, investment is expected to be subdued as firms defer
capital expenditures amid high uncertainty.”

Read also: Clouds thicken over Indonesia’s economic growth as
uncertainties persist

Uncertainty surrounding the global economy, including the trajectory
of the virus and vaccine trials, are key factors shaping the outlook,
the report goes on to say.

“The downturn could be less severe than forecast if economic
normalization proceeds faster than currently expected in areas that
have reopened,” it reads, while adding that downside risks, such as
future outbreaks, remain significant.

Policymakers, the IMF suggests, should consider strengthening fiscal
stimulus measures to respond to deteriorating economic conditions.

“Temporary targeted cash transfers to low-income households that
kick in when the unemployment rate or jobless claims rise above a
certain threshold—can be highly effective in dampening downturns.”

The Indonesian government has allocated Rp 695.2 trillion (US$ 49.3
billion) worth of COVID-19 spending to boost economic growth and
strengthen healthcare systems amid the pandemic.

The IMF’s gloomy projection adds to an already long list of
weakening expectations for the Indonesian economy made by other
international institutions.

The World Bank has projected 0 percent growth for Indonesia this year
as the global economy is expected to see its deepest downturn since
World War II.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
expect the Indonesian economy to shrink 2.8 percent this year even if
the government manages to avoid a second wave of infections. If it is
hit by a second wave, however, the economy could witness a 3.9 percent
contraction.

Read also: GDP to contract by 3.1% in Q2 on COVID-19 headwinds

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) projected Indonesia’s gross
domestic product (GDP) to shrink 1 percent this year, which would be
the weakest performance since the 1998 Asian financial crisis.

Meanwhile, international rating agency Moody’s Investor Service
expected Indonesia’s economy to shrink by 0.8 percent this year,
followed by a strong rebound of 6.1 percent in 2021.

“We continue to expect a gradual recovery beginning in the second
half of the year, but that outcome will depend on whether governments
can reopen their economies while also safeguarding public health,”
Moody’s said in its Global Macro Outlook 2020-21 June Update.

Moody’s expects the G20 economies to contract by 4.6 percent this
year, followed by 5.2 percent growth next year.