BUBBLE TOURISM WEARS FLAK

 BUBBLE TOURISM WEARS FLAK 

Thais must let down guard to spur growth

 [The number of air passengers is relatively small at Don Mueang
airport in Bangkok this month as air travel remains restricted.
(Photo: Pattarapong Chatpattarasill)] The number of air passengers is
relatively small at Don Mueang airport in Bangkok this month as air
travel remains restricted. (Photo: Pattarapong Chatpattarasill) 
Thailand may have to allow new infections to occur in the kingdom if
it wants the economy to get back on track, a health official said on
Thursday.

Supakit Sirilak, deputy permanent secretary for public health, said
the kingdom has gone 31 days without recording new local
transmissions. He said the country may have to let its guard down
while effectively managing new infections if the economy is to
recover.

Dr Supakit, who heads a Public Health Ministry committee assigned to
evaluate the Covid-19 situation, said the committee is preparing
proposals on how to reopen the tourism industry, particularly travel
bubbles to help the economy move forward.

The proposals will be forwarded to the Centre for Covid-19 Situation
Administration (CCSA) for consideration during a Monday meeting. He
did not provide more details.

"Thailand has gone 31 days without new local infections, but efforts
to keep new cases at zero for long periods will have a high price for
us to pay," Dr Supakit said. "We would have economic and social losses
that we have to accept."

"However, if we allow too many infections, they will overwhelm our
health care system, and this will also have an adverse impact on the
economy," he said. "Therefore, we must strike a balance -- allowing
some new infections to happen at a manageable level so the economy can
move forward."

The government has come up with a plan to open travel bubbles with
several countries, a move crucial to restoring international links to
boost the economy.

Japan and China are among the countries which the government has
targeted for travel bubbles as the nation is in dire need of the
return of foreign tourists.

Of all foreign travellers before the outbreak, Chinese nationals
accounted for the majority (27.6%), with 28.1% of tourism revenue
coming from them.

However, Dr Supakit said the travel bubble arrangements must be
regulated, including restrictions on free travel. Country, activity
and personal risks must be taken into account, he said.

Travellers should come from areas and territories deemed free of the
disease before arriving in Thailand. While in the kingdom, the
travellers should also stay at pre-approved accommodation.

"If the circumstances change, and countries with travel bubble
pairings with Thailand have new surges of infections, terms of
agreements may also change," said Dr Supakit.

Thira Woratanarat, a health expert at Chulalongkorn University's
faculty of medicine, posted on Facebook on Thursday, warning against
allowing the return of medical and wellness tourism.

Dr Thira said the losses would far outweigh the gains the kingdom
could receive from the plan, given the severity of the global pandemic
which continues unabated, with new surges of infections in several
countries.

Somsak Roongsita, secretary-general of the National Security Council,
on Thursday said travel bubbles will not happen any time soon.

Preparations may take up to two months before tourists from countries
with travel bubble pacts with Thailand will be allowed in, he added.

Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam said on Thursday
the Japan External Trade Organisation (Jetro) has informed him that
thousands of Japanese businessmen want to come on business trips to
Thailand.

Mr Wissanu said the guidelines for allowing their return will be
discussed at the CCSA Monday meeting.

He also said Jetro wants Thailand to increase the number of
alternative quarantine facilities from an estimated 900 to more than
1,000 to accommodate the incoming Japanese businessmen.

The deputy premier said the government is ready to arrange more
quarantine facilities if necessary.

The CCSA on Thursday reported one new coronavirus case detected in a
Thai national returning from abroad, taking the country to 31 days
without a local transmission.