CENTRAL, AWS SET UP STARTUP LAB

[image]
Central Tech, the e-retail technology arm under Central Group, is
partnering with Amazon Web Services (AWS) to establish the Central
Tech Retail Lab to support startups with ideas that can be
incorporated into Central Group's operations, offering incubation,
training, consulting and eventually commercial partnerships.

Startups can submit their proposals to Central Tech via their website
and those chosen by the company will receive varying levels of support
based on how mature the startup is and how promising the technology.

An innovation committee comprising Central Group management will
decide which projects to bring to market through a proof of concept
showcase.

"We are looking for really new ideas that can help us grow our
business, drive productivity within the organisation and maybe
optimise the way we deal with business partners," said Axel Winter,
chief technology officer at Central Group.

"Each project should be about 4-8 weeks so we can see if there is a
benefit, and if we see the value we are prepared to take the next
step."

Early-stage startups can receive training and consulting, while
later-stage ones can be taken to market and showcased at Central
stores.

Those that prove to be valuable to startup groups can partner with
Central and be incorporated in the corporation's operations, he said.

Multiple innovation projects have already been developed through
Central Tech's innovation team.

"Top Box" is a project to develop the first "innovation supermarket"
in Thailand, which uses electronic price labels, QR codes and app
payment services, with no need for a check-out queue.

The lab also developed a smart temperature scanner to prevent future
Covid-19 outbreaks, which was first implemented at Tops supermarkets,
owned by Central Group.

Cypto Coin is another startup partnered with Central Group that offers
a reward programme for Central employees, providing discounts at
stores near its offices.

Kowin Kulruchakorn, chief of innovation at Central Tech, said the
Central Tech Retail Lab will engage with startups and the local tech
community to identify new breakthrough ideas.

"We can use the innovations from startup partners to test their ideas
with Central Group business and add value to their products," Mr Kowin
said.

Chawapol Jariyawiroj, Thai country manager of AWS, the cloud computing
service under Amazon Group, said the company will provide startups
with low cost, easy-to-use infrastructure needed to scale and grow
businesses.

Startups can access the resources they need to get started on AWS
through credit, training and support.

Those selected by the retail lab will receive US$10,000 in credit
towards AWS services, along with technical coaching on how to
transform their ideas into viable businesses.

"We hope Thailand will have a unicorn startup to drive its economic
engine," Mr Chawapol said.

"Thai startups are very lean with limited resources that make them
more efficient. Post-Covid, investors and startups will focus more on
profits and losses rather than scaling for growth. However, this opens
up new opportunities for businesses to transform, in particular by
hyper-personalising user experiences."