ENERGY SPENDING SPED UP

 ENERGY SPENDING SPED UP 

B230bn allotted for several projects

 [Corn waste is turned into fuel for electricity at the Mae Cham pilot
project, part of Energy for All.  Yuthana Praiwan] Corn waste is
turned into fuel for electricity at the Mae Cham pilot project, part
of Energy for All.  Yuthana Praiwan 
Energy policymakers are accelerating budget spending worth 230 billion
baht through development projects, hoping to inject huge investment
into the staggering economy during the rest of the year.

Deputy Prime Minister Somkid Jatusripitak, who met Energy Ministry
officials on Thursday, said Thailand needs investment to stimulate the
economy in the post-pandemic era, starting in the second half of 2020.

The government is allocating 200 billion baht of its investment budget
to two key state enterprises, the Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand (Egat) and national oil and gas firm PTT Plc, for a range of
projects. These include grid modernisation and connectivity,
development of liquefied natural gas receiving terminals, the fifth
phase of the gas pipeline and the decommissioning of gas production
rigs in the Gulf of Thailand.

A further 30 billion baht will be used to support the Energy for All
scheme, which encourages communities to co-invest with the private
sector on renewable energy-based power plants to produce 100 megawatts
of electricity.

The budget is the second allocation from the ministry's financial
package set up to relieve the viral impact. An earlier subsidy lowered
monthly power bills from March to May to help those struggling with
living costs during the lockdown and work-from-home period.

In total, the government spent 40.5 billion baht through the
Provincial Electricity Authority and the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority.

The subsidy has ended and is not being extended, said Energy Minister
Sontirat Sontijirawong.

He looks forward to using Energy for All to extend further help to
rural people, who will be encouraged to earn money by selling
agricultural waste as fuel for electricity production.

The scheme is expected to be approved by the cabinet next Tuesday,
kicking off a process to select investors by the Energy Regulatory
Commission, the minister said.

The first licence for power plant operation is scheduled for August.

"We hope this project will create jobs for at least 10,000 people and
generate over 2 billion baht in revenue," Mr Sontirat said.

In another development, Egat announced on Thursday it would embark on
energy technology businesses by forming a joint venture with two
subsidiaries to set up a new company, Innovation Holding Co.

The firm is made up of 40% investment from Egat, 30% from Ratch Group
Plc and another 30% from Electricity Generating Plc.

Kulit Sombatsiri, Egat chairman and energy permanent secretary, said
the new businesses will cover a new trade platform for electricity
from renewable sources, energy storage systems, electric vehicles and
digital solutions.