THAI AIRWAYS FEELS LOSS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE STATUS

 THAI AIRWAYS FEELS LOSS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE STATUS 

AoT pulls check-in counters, stands

 [Airports of Thailand takes back some of the counters and stands of
Thai Airways International to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights
out of Suvarnabhumi airport. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb)] Airports
of Thailand takes back some of the counters and stands of Thai Airways
International to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights out of
Suvarnabhumi airport. (Photo by Varuth Hirunyatheb) 
Thai Airways International (THAI) is seeking help from authorities
after the Airports of Thailand (AoT) recalled more than 50% of the
check-in counters and aircraft stands at Suvarnabhumi airport, said
Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam.

Mr Wissanu, who heads a committee coordinating solutions to THAI's
problems, said on Thursday the airline raised the recall issue at a
recent meeting.

Airports of Thailand said it was taking back some of the counters and
stands to reflect planned cutbacks in THAI flights out of
Suvarnabhumi, its hub airport, after the airline resumes operations in
August after months of suspension because of the Covid-19 pandemic.

The carrier, which has a massive 244 billion baht in outstanding debt,
has filed for rehabilitation with the Central Bankruptcy Court.

Mr Wissanu said THAI has asked the panel for help as the recall of
facilities may be excessive. Prasong Poontaneat, the permanent
secretary for finance who sits on the coordinating committee, plans to
thrash out the issue with the AoT. Mr Prasong also chairs the AoT
board.

Since THAI lost its status as a state-owned enterprise (SOE)
following the sale of the Finance Ministry's stake in the airline to
below 50%, it no longer holds privileges over the use of facilities
and equipment at the airport, said Mr Wissanu.

The carrier is treated just like any other commercial airline, the
deputy prime minister added.

THAI occupies up to four rows of check-in counters at Suvarnabhumi
airport. The AoT is taking back more than half of them as the airline
looks set to reduce its capacity in light of the rehab programme,
which will necessitate shrinking its fleet and scaling back flight
destinations.

Mr Wissanu said THAI has not formally petitioned courts overseas for
debt rehab.

However, the airline has asked that courts in countries where its
creditors are based to recognise its impending debt rehab in Thailand.

This is to prevent creditors impounding THAI's assets, including
aircraft in foreign countries.

The AoT is also seeking the return of parts of the parking stands
allocated to THAI and space in the concourses.

Acting THAI president Chakkrit Parapuntakul said the lockdown easing
opens up a lifeline for the airline industry worldwide which has been
battered by the coronavirus pandemic.

THAI said it has prepared its ground staff and equipment to be
deployed in a comprehensive working plan under "new normal"
regulations and practices at airports.