FEAR OF BEIJING SECOND WAVE AFTER MARKET OUTBREAK

 
An area of the Chinese capital Beijing has been put under strict
lockdown measures after the city's first coronavirus cases in more
than 50 days.

The outbreak has been linked to the city's largest wholesale market.

A total of 45 people out of 517 tested at the Xinfadi market tested
positive for Covid-19, a district official said. None was displaying
symptoms.

Lockdowns have been imposed in 11 nearby neighbourhoods, while 10,000
market staff will be tested.

The authorities also want to test everyone who has had recent contact
with the market as well as those living in the district surrounding
it.

These are the first new confirmed cases in Beijing for more than 50
days.

WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE NEW CASES?

Xinfadi market in the city's south-western Fengtai district was shut
down in the early hours of Saturday, after two men who had recently
visited the market were reported to have Covid-19.

Tests at the market then showed 45 people had the virus.

"In accordance with the principle of putting the safety of the masses
and health first, we have adopted lockdown measures for the Xinfadi
market and surrounding neighbourhoods," Chu Junwei, a district
official, told a briefing.

The district is in a "wartime emergency mode", he added.

Hundreds of military police have entered the now locked-down facility.
Nearby transport links and schools have been closed.

 	* What did China do about early outbreak?
 	* Did China test a whole city in 10 days?

Right across Beijing sport has been cancelled and major public
facilities are pulling down the shutters again.

There will now be fears of a second wave of the virus in the capital.

 [image]
Media playback is unsupported on your device

China's coronavirus outbreak was brought under control through some of
the world's strictest lockdown measures after the disease was detected
in the city of Wuhan.

More than 4,600 people in China have lost their lives to the
coronavirus out of around 426,000 worldwide, according to the Johns
Hopkins University.

Chinese officials aren't sure how the huge Xinfandi wholesale market -
which supplies 80% of Beijing's vegetables and meat - has become the
source of a new coronavirus outbreak.

In recent months the Chinese government's strategy has been to
completely isolate any town or city where a coronavirus cluster has
emerged.

This appears to have worked but locking down all of Beijing, at time
when it seemed like the virus emergency had been brought under
control, is not something they'll want to do in a hurry.
 