SCOTS TEACHER SAYS BEIJING 'COMING BACK TO LIFE'

[image] 
From a flat in Beijing, Chloe Sandilands has watched the impact of
coronavirus in Scotland largely through the lens of social media.

"At least we have toilet paper," she laughs. "No one is bulk buying
here, I've never seen the shop shelves out of anything."

Since September, the 22-year-old has been living and teaching in the
Chinese capital - nearly 5,000 miles away from her home in Rosyth,
Fife.

She says the country's convenience culture has helped overcome social
distancing - a form of virus management.

Beijing has seen widespread closures of shops, bars and restaurants,
while other venues limit three to a table. Strict curfews at apartment
complexes are also in operation.

The arrival of the virus in the UK was enough to prompt a surge in
panic purchasing, leaving many supermarkets without basic supplies
such as hand wash.

But according to Chloe, Beijing has avoided such disruption - largely
because ordering food and groceries online is the norm.

People are able to use a single payment app - such as Alipay or WeChat
- not only to arrange deliveries, but also to order taxis and for
online banking.

The same apps also provide daily updates on coronavirus recovery
figures.

"China is so far ahead of the UK in terms of technology and
convenience," Chloe said. "You can track the country's health and see
how everyone is doing, it's reassuring.

"But it's been a couple of months now and you realise you can't be in
the house all the time - life has to go on.

"People still wear masks but I think people are getting less scared.
The subway is getting busier and you see more people out and about
which is nice.

"It feels like it's coming back to life."

Chloe moved to Beijing to teach English in the private sector in
September, four months before the coronavirus outbreak.

Like many others, she was off work during the Lunar New Year, but her
school has since remained closed - a consistent issue of concern in
Scotland.

 	* Lanarkshire school closure after infection confirmed
 	* No change to exam timetable 'at present'

Chloe's employer has instead set up an online video conferencing
system which Chloe uses to communicate with students - meaning lessons
are possible, but logistically challenging.

She explains how the system means class sizes have been cut in half
and encouraging children to focus from afar takes up a great deal of
time.

She said: "A class that would have taken me two hours with a 10-minute
break is now taking me three hours and 20 minutes.

"I've had kids just playing or hiding from the computer - one older
kid drew a stick man and stuck it in front of his computer lens.

"It's just new and can be scary for them and you have to make sure
they're comfortable. At the end of each class you tell each person to
stay safe and wash their hands - but I'm not sure how much they'll
understand.

"Their parents are over their shoulders so you end up talking to them
more."

Having detected its first case at the end of February, the UK has now
entered the second phase of virus management.

New social distancing measures have been introduced aimed at delaying
the peak of the outbreak until the summer.

In Scotland, these measures include self-isolation for people who
experience new coughs and fevers, as well as advice against large
gatherings.

Meanwhile, China has seen a total of 80,754 confirmed cases and 3,136
deaths - it also recorded its lowest number of new infections, just
19, on Tuesday.

In Beijing, temperature checks are still being carried out on citizens
at subways, apartments and restaurants. People who show signs of fever
are turned away.

However, this week President Xi Jinping visited the city of Wuhan -
the centre of the coronavirus outbreak - sending the message that the
situation is under control.

For Chloe, who has managed to avoid the virus, there certainly seems
to be light at the end of a rather long tunnel.

She said: "We're all pretty isolated but I'm allowed to leave my flat,
thankfully.

"Chinese people are very strong and kind, which is something Scottish
people share. I don't know how Scottish people would handle
restrictions on going out - but if it's a matter of public health I
think we'd power through.

"It's definitely a very scary time for everyone, it would be
irresponsible to pretend everything is ok.

"I didn't realise until recently that if you're inside all day you
start to go a bit crazy - but you try to cling to your community and
your people. You're all in the same boat so don't isolate yourself
more than necessary."