WORST IS OVER, TCFH SAYS, EYEING BETTER H2 - TAIPEI TIMES

 RESILIENT MARKET: PROPERTY PURCHASES COULD IMPROVE IN THE SECOND HALF
OF THE YEAR FOR HOME BUYERS AND COMPANIES SEEKING FACTORY SITES OR
OFFICE SPACE, THE BANK SAID 

 	*
By Crystal Hsu / Staff reporter

 	* 

State-run Taiwan Cooperative Financial Holding Co (TCFH, 合庫金控)
on Wednesday said the operating environment might start to improve in
the second half of the year as the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic this
quarter is over.

TCFH chairman Lei Chung-dar (雷仲達) made the remarks after the
company’s annual general meeting, when government-appointed
candidates secured an overwhelming majority on the company’s board,
winning 13 of 15 seats.

“The worst impact from the virus outbreak is likely over for Taiwan
and things might start to improve going forward,” said Lei, who is
also a director on the central bank board, and poised to remain at the
helm of the bank-focused conglomerate.

 [image] 
Main subsidiary Taiwan Cooperative Bank (合庫銀行), the nation’s
largest lender by number of branches, aims to increase its loan book
by 3 percent this year, aided by companies shifting production back to
Taiwan from China as well as a recovery in property deals.

The lender, one of Taiwan’s top mortgage operators, posted an 8.5
percent pickup in land financing and another 2.7 percent gain in
mortgage lending in the first quarter, compared with a year earlier.

Lei said that people who previously postponed property purchases might
start to resume buying after the virus crisis in Taiwan began to wind
down late last month.

Government data showed that the housing market from February to last
month held resilient with a low single-digit percentage decline
compared with the same period last year.

Meanwhile, demand for factory and office space is expected to gain
traction from returning companies seeking to diversify manufacturing
sites and cope with US-China trade tensions, brokers have said.

Overall, the record low interest rate would lend support to property
purchases, Lei said.

There is no need to worry about a property bubble, he said, adding
that real demand underpins housing deals these days and the central
bank has policy tools such as credit controls to curb speculation.

The boom in domestic tourism is also favorable for consumer banking,
Lei told shareholders, as all lenders have offered cash rebates or
credit bonuses to customers who use stimulus vouchers to pay for
transportation, hotels, restaurant meals, shopping or other
recreational expenses.

Shareholders at the meeting approved a proposal to distribute a cash
dividend of NT$1.15 per common share.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.