US STILL NATION’S LARGEST DEBTOR IN Q1: CENTRAL BANK - TAIPEI TIMES

[image]

 	*
By Crystal Hsu / Staff reporter

 	* 

The US remained Taiwan’s largest debtor nation in the first quarter
of the year, although domestic banks’ exposure to the world’s
largest economy decreased, as the COVID-19 pandemic drove local
investors to redeem foreign funds, the central bank said on Wednesday.

Taiwanese banks’ direct risk exposure to the US stood at US$84.36
billion, while ultimate risk exposure — after factoring in risk
transfers — was US$83.89 billion, down from record highs of US$89.75
billion and US$86.36 billion respectively three months earlier, the
central bank said in a report.

Despite the retreat, the US topped other debtor destinations for the
19th consecutive quarter, as earlier interest rate hikes by the US
Federal Reserve attracted global funds to US investment instruments,
the report said.

However, wild swings last quarter across global financial markets
prompted Taiwanese investors to terminate their investments in US
dollar-based mutual funds, it said.

The markets remain volatile as funds continue to seek safe havens
following aggressive rate cuts by central banks worldwide to pre-empt
credit crunches, while COVID-19 infections continue to spike in the
US, several European nations, Russia and Brazil as well as some Asian
and Middle Eastern nations.

China came in second, with Taiwanese banks’ exposure totaling
US$46.1 billion on a direct-risk basis and US$66.9 billion on an
ultimate-risk basis, the report said.

Yuan-denominated investment tools have lost their appeal amid a spate
of rate cuts and depreciation of the Chinese currency, it said.

Hong Kong placed third, with an increase in direct-risk exposure to
US$37.04 billion and ultimate-risk exposure to US$25.25 billion after
local banks wired money to their Hong Kong branches to cope with
earlier liquidity tightness, the report said.

Overall, Taiwan’s direct-risk exposure fell 3.4 percent to US$438.5
billion, while ultimate-risk exposure decreased by 2.97 percent to
US$423.2 billion, the report showed.

Advanced economies accounted for 51.05 percent of the total, followed
by developing markets at 25.85 percent, it showed.

Asian and Pacific nations made up 48 percent, while American and
Caribbean regions accounted for 29.85 percent, it added.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.