5G ADOPTION TO REACH 5 TO 20% IN FIRST YEAR: ERICSSON - TAIPEI TIMES

[image]

 	*
By Lisa Wang / Staff Reporter

 	* 

Taiwan’s 5G penetration rate is expected to reach 5 to 20 percent a
year after telecoms launch commercial services, while consumer uptake
would depend on the maturity of 5G industrial chains, Ericsson Taiwan
Ltd (台灣愛立信) said.

Taiwan is among the nations introducing the high-speed wireless
technology this year, but the availability of 5G-enabled devices,
mostly smartphones, is still limited and prices are high, Ericsson
Taiwan president Chafic Nassif told a news briefing in Taipei on
Tuesday.

That would not compare to Taiwan’s rapid uptake of 4G, which in its
first 12 months reached 20 percent penetration rate, the company said.

Nassif said he is positive about Taiwan’s migration to 5G, as more
innovative applications would be available for average consumers, and
enterprise users soon are to have more stable and secure Internet
connectivity.

Taiwan’s major telecoms are to roll out 5G service in the second
half of this year, with Chunghwa Telecom Co (中華電信) likely to
take the lead on Wednesday next week, followed by Far EasTone
Telecommunications Co (遠傳電信) two days later.

Chunghwa Telecom has said that within a year of launch, its number of
5G subscribers would reach 1 million, accounting for less than 10
percent of its total mobile subscribers.

With more 5G networks to come online later this year, the number of 5G
subscribers worldwide is forecast to hit 190 million by the end of
this year, according to the Ericsson Mobility Report released earlier
this month.

The number is to expand to 2.8 billion by 2025, up from the 2.6
billion it estimated in September last year, accounting for about 30
percent of all mobile subscriptions at that time, Ericsson forecast.

“This is mainly due to a faster uptake in China than previously
expected,” the report said.

However, the COVID-19 pandemic has delayed 5G spectrum auctions in
Europe and could lead to a slower uptake of subscriptions in the near
term, it said.

The report showed that consumers see resilient networks as vital
during the pandemic, with 83 percent of respondents saying that
information and communications technology has largely helped them cope
with lockdowns.

One-third of consumers plan to invest in 5G and better broadband
networks in preparation for a potential second wave of outbreaks, the
report said.

Still, 4G LTE would remain the dominant mobile access technology by
subscription from this year to 2025, with subscriber numbers likely to
peak in 2022 at 5.1 billion, it said.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article.
Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of
any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final
decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.